Who are our Upsiders?

How to Up

We talked with some of our first wave of Upsiders to get a picture of who they are, what they liked about Up, and what they'd like to see from us in the future.

Caitlin
What do you do when you’re living not banking?

Being owned by my two Finnish Lapphund dogs including a new 9 week old puppy, running, reading, or learning more about digital marketing.

How did you hear about Up?

Up popped up on my Twitter feed and I’m always curious to try new things so I clicked and ... here we are!

What do you like most about using Up?

It’s so simple. I can see what the transactions are in detail, rather than trying to remember what I spent money on a month ago. I can transfer and send money quickly and easily. And it’s kinda fun!

What would you like to see on Up in the future?

I’d love to be able to easily portion my money for different things and track what’s left e.g. budgeting within the app, but real time with my accounts.

Why would you recommend it to other people?

It’s easy, it makes banking less painful and less of a hassle, and the card gets you loads of compliments when you use it!

Brian
What do you do when you’re living not banking?

Year 12 student, Gong Cha addict and LOOΠΔ stanner.

How did you hear about Up?

I heard about Up through Whirlpool and saw it briefly on the App Store, which prompted me to try the bank out. It is a decision that I will never regret.

What do you like most about using Up?

Apple Pay support, having everyone in awe at the awesome card and the awesome app which integrates a pocketbook-like app straight into my banking.

What would you like to see on Up in the future?

BPay support, SCT support, it might be impossible but also WeChat Pay support and TransferWise support. Please get rid of that International ATM fee as well <3.

Why would you recommend Up to other people?

I have recommended Up to a number of people and will continue to do so because of the better savings rates, better app, better banking infrastructure, better support and implementing features faster than I've ever seen from traditional banks. The signup process is also seamless. As a Melbournian, I am proud of a small team located in Melbourne for envisioning, starting and delivering the bank that people need right into our hands. I'll never-ever switch back to the Big 4 as one of my main banking platforms.

Mereki
What do you do when you’re living not banking?

I am a fintech enthusiast, payments geek, soccer coach and Melbourne Demons believer.

How did you hear about Up?

I can’t remember – I think on Twitter.  Once I had heard about it, I signed up straight away and haven’t looked back!

What do you like most about using Up?

I love the simplicity!  The initial set up blew me away – that I could start transacting within minutes. The PayID registration was the simplest that I have seen, and I love that Up also generate a PayID that I can use. I love the conversational payments – it is how payments on a mobile app should work.

I have set up my kids to be able use my card on their phones on Apple Pay, and it gives me comfort that I know that I can get them money instantaneously at any time of the day to help them out in an emergency.  As their first experience of a banking product, they think that mobile, cardless, real time payments is the norm! (plus they like the stickers!)

What would you like to see on Up in the future?

I would love to see Up introduce some options for kids under 15.  It would be great for my kids to have their own accounts and to activate the saver feature to teach them about saving (and also so they can stop spending my money on my account!).   I would like to see some mortgage products – this is the thing that is preventing me from moving all my accounts to Up as I still need to reduce my interest payments with my mortgage offset account at my current bank.   I also would love to see how Up could disrupt Small Business Banking – especially for smaller businesses and sole traders who are a forgotten segment by the big banks.

Why would you recommend it to other people?

I recommend Up because they are genuinely focused on customers and it is a bank that is authentic and humble.  I like that they have the security of being backed by a large bank which makes me feel safer about my money.  Most of all I recommend them because I want people to see just how simple, seamless and fun banking can be!

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Upsiders

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.