2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Cards, 2Up

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here. We know it’s been a long time coming, so we wanted to say thanks to all of you who’ve been waiting so patiently. And to those of you waiting impatiently too. Cheers 😘

As a bank, and as humans, introducing more plastic into the world comes with some considerations, so we wanted to take the time we needed to get it right. We look forward to a world where plastic cards are no longer necessary. While that's true most of the time, there are still occasions when they're needed.

Before we released 2Up Plastic, we wanted the confidence to be able to say with conviction that we’d carefully thought it through, given the significant impact plastic has on our planet. So the newest addition to Up’s card family is a more environmentally-friendly option, forged from 82% recycled materials — packaged up and delivered in a recyclable mailer.

As an Upsider, you’ll know that we don’t charge any monthly fees which would usually fund the cost of a physical card, so we’ve introduced a one-time $10 charge to cover the production costs. Our plan is to keep building an experience that everyone can use for free and add in some cool extras along the way that not everyone will want or need — like 2Up Plastic.

In addition to this, $1 from every card sold goes towards our new mates & partners at Seabin. If you’re not familiar with the work Seabin are doing, they’re an Australian-based team who dedicate their time to cleaning up plastic and other waste from oceans around the globe with their innovative environmental projects. You can check out all things Seabin over on their website.

While we aren’t changing the world yet, we’re going to carry on down the road of sustainability and continue to support organisations like Seabin who follow the same path. We’re rapt to be partnering with their team and back them in on all the great things they’re doing in the conservation space.

Getting it on with 2Up Plastic.
2Up — collaborative finances for couples
Level up with 2Up

If you’ve got your heart set on a 2Up Plastic Card, you can order one in-app directly to your door by tapping the banner under the 2Up tab. But being that we’re digital by default, we’ll always encourage you to first look at alternatives to using plastic cards.

For instance, if you have a physical card linked to your personal Up account, transferring funds across from 2Up into your personal account is an easy way to get around using another plastic card. Or take the Zap Card for example, our digital money messiah — still #1 in our hearts.

At the end of the day, you’ve got plenty of options to decide what works best for you. And no matter what decision you end up making, we’re confident it’ll be an EA$Y one.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Money with mates

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.