Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Spending and Budgeting
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.