UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

For years Up's debit card weight class has been dominated by the notorious Up Plastic Card. Through and through a traditional spender, Up Plastic has long demonstrated to Upsiders the strength of the physical medium and made a name for itself as the default debit card for making purchases online and instore.

In a world class shake up, 2022 saw the entrance of the Zap Card: a fresh challenger with an appetite for digital domination. The Zap Card's instant speed advantage, ability to not require manual verification and compelling convenience has left the people wondering – Which Up Card should I be using? Will Up Physical or Digital come out on top?

It's a clash of the titans, as these two debit cards go head-to-head to determine who reigns supreme in the world of spending. We'll go through, round by round, each of these dominating debit cards unique features and considerations. It’s up to you to determine which card will reign supreme in your wallet. Let’s spend some time breaking down the action.

WHY 2 CARDS BUT 1 ACCOUNT?

Originally there was a single plastic card. While Upsiders could add it to their digital wallet during sign-up, they couldn't see card details until they received the card in the mail.

This is based on security — if an Upsider could read and use their card details before they received the physical card, so too could a bad actor if they intercepted the physical card. This is why we have an activation step: it proves the card arrived safely into the possession of the correct Upsider.

Still spending from the same account, the Zap Card offers a different take. This card is instantly issued as soon as you sign up for an Up account. You'll get access to your card details right away in app and the ability to add the card to your digital wallet of choice. No activation needed and no waiting for a plastic card in the mail.

For the first time the Zap Card opened up a choice, if I’m not waiting for my card and card details to arrive in the mail, why am I waiting to start setting up subscriptions and shopping online?

DIGITAL ZAP CARD

Coming out of the card creation camp at a blazing pace, Zap Cards are ready to roll with you from day one. If you’re freshly signed up to Up you’ll have a digital Zap Card waiting for you in the ‘Cards’ menu of the app. Packing speed and performance where it counts, this digital only card gives you instant access to a set of card details so it's perfect to start setting up your direct debits, shopping online, or getting your digital wallet set up fast.

Zap Cards bring a previously unseen stance to your app facing only in a horizontal orientation and always wearing the signature Zap Sunglasses logo.

Here’s the tale of the tape: A breakdown of Zap Card’s unique technique:

Instantly issued with Card Details available right away in app.
Great for bills and digital wallets
Expires every 5 years (instead of the standard 3)
Available only in app. Hard to be stolen and can be regenerated instantly if the details are compromised
Doesn't work with ATMs or other places you're required to insert or swipe a physical card
Reliant on a device. Doesn’t cope well with flat batteries
PLASTIC UP CARD

The unchallenged veteran of swiping and inserting. Forged in a layer plastic, the Up Card is a sure fire way to ensure your spending is covered no matter what situation you’re in. Up Cards stand tall in a portrait orientation and are delivered via post to Upsiders after they sign up. Once your Plastic Up card arrives at your door, an in app activation is required to bring this reliable spender to life. An Up card can still be added to your digital wallets for in store and online purchases, making this card a real hybrid in the spending space.

In a quickly digitising world, here's how the grandmaster Plastic Up Card stacks up:

Works at ATMs and for in-person payments where contactless isn't accepted
A recommended overseas travel companion
Waterproof!
Doesn't rely on the batteries of a digital device
Takes a while to arrive via the post
Can physically be lost/stolen
If it's lost or stolen, all billers and other merchants need to be updated with new card details
COMPLETE CONTROL

No matter if you’re spending out of the plastic or digital corner the ‘Cards’ menu in your Up app is your one-stop-shop for all your Card Controls. Both your Zap and Up Card have complete control available at your fingertips. Set individual PINs, enable or disable all kinds of transactions and grab yourself a new card/card details if your Cards are lost or stolen.

The Cards menu in-app will give you up to date status updates on either of your day to day financial fighters. Swipe between any of your active or inactive cards to put you at the centre of the card configuration action.

A NEW CHALLENGER APPROACHES?

Keep it dialled in on Up for more info of a new card available soon…

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Up Card, Zap Card, Digital Cards, Spending, Card Controls

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

New Year’s resolutions feel good to make, but there’s a smarter way to change. Upsider Anna shares her secret to really saving.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

Jan 04, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.