Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

Updates

iOS Lockscreen Widgets

A small but powerful addition for our iOS friends. You can now add Up widgets to your iPhone lock screen and let these little pocket rockets do the heavy lifting. Take your productivity to new heights as you view your Balances, Trackers & Savers in one swift glance. When the mood strikes, implant a circular, rectangular or top line widget into your lock screen and soak up the ultimate iOS experience on Up.

2Up Locked Savers

Teamwork makes the dream work. 2Up Locked Savers are at your disposal — the ultimate way to secure your savings on Up. Both Players 1 & 2 have the ability to lock a 2Up Saver, but these function a little differently to your personal Locked Savers.

For 2Up Savers, the Player that seals the vault on a Saver won’t receive the usual prompt to nominate a mate to skip the 3-hour timer. Instead, the non-initiating Player is nominated by default to wield the key that unlocks the safe before the timer runs out.

End Repeating Payments

It’s your way or the highway. Repeating Payments can now be set up to stop automatically after a set number of payments. Select the amount of payments that suits you, knock ‘em dead and empower yourself to refine and optimise your financial road ahead.

Regular Slices

To save you some time, we’ve tinkered with Slices to show a collection of the most recent contacts and groups you’ve Sliced a payment with. Any regular Upsiders you’ve Sliced with will now appear ahead of the rest of your contact list each time you Slice up a payment.

The devil is in the details with each of these little nuggets. Enjoy a selection of compact changes built to make life on Up that little bit easier.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: iOS, 2Up, Payments, Lockscreen widgets, Locked Savers

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.