UpYear 2024 has landed!

How to Up

Unveil The Cosmic Secrets Of Your 2024

Embark on a journey through your financial cosmos with UpYear—the ultimate wrap-up of your 2024. Like a star chart of your spending and saving habits, UpYear brings clarity to the vast and sometimes puzzling universe of your finances. No need to sift through your data; UpYear offers a self-guided tour right from within the app.

Now in it’s fourth year, UpYear has never been easier to navigate. Explore the spending and saving patterns of your past year to uncover the cosmic secrets that made your 2024 uniquely yours.

Getting Your 2024 UpYear In Review

In 2024 we’ve made it easier than ever to view your UpYear, seamlessly bridging the gap from web browsers to a fully integrated in-app experience. After sourcing the most sacred of cosmic calculations, your 2024 year in review is re-born and served directly to you entirely in-app.

Just make sure you’re running the latest version of the Up app (v3.4.11), then tap the banner at the top of your Activity feed to find your Up Year 2024 ready to view.

Your 2024 UpYear in review will stay in your Activity feed until 23/12/24, ready to revisit. Don’t miss out—after that date, your 2024 story will burn out like a dying star, lost to the abyss forever.

What’s Orbiting In Your UpYear Universe?

UpYear brings your financial universe into focus with a simple breakdown of the money that came in and the money that went out. Take a look at how your savings changed and get a crystal-clear picture of your financial journey throughout 2024.

Discover your top shops, where you spent the most, and see how other Upsiders travelled the globe on Up. It’s the best way to unpack your year and see how it compares to all those who call The Upside home.

The End Of The Beginning

Get a galactic-sized view of how your money moved through 2024, and decide whether it’s time to make some adjustments. If you like what you see—you’re on the right trajectory! If not, fasten your seatbelt and punch in some new coordinates to change your money habits for 2025.

UpYear is all about making your financial journey clearer, but if you’d prefer to give it a miss, the power is yours.

Cheers to another year on The Upside—see you in 2025 for a bigger, brighter adventure!

A Deal That’s Out Of This World...

You didn’t think we’d leave you without a parting gift, did you?

Right now, you and a mate can each get a cool $20 when you give them the gift of Up. Simply tap the ‘Hook Up A Mate’ banner from under the Up tab to send them an invite, and you’ll both score when they sign up.

Get inviting from the ‘Hook Up a Mate’ menu in your Up app today. Offer ends 31st Jan 2025 — after this date, your referral bonus will return to its normal amount.

Learn more about referrals & suss out the T&Cs @ up.com.au/hook_up_a_mate/

How Your 2024 Figures Were Figured
Money In & Money Out

Money In (Up Spending): "Money In" is calculated as the total AUD value of deposits into your Up Spending or 2Up Spending accounts from January 1, 2024, to December 3, 2024. This includes OSKO and Direct Entry payments.

Money Out (Spending and Savers): The total AUD value of successful purchases and payments made from your Up or 2Up Spending and Savers accounts between January 1, 2024, and December 3, 2024.

Income Spent

Percentage of income spent is calculated from the difference between your total “Money In” and “Money Out” of your Up Spending and Savers accounts.

Top Merchants

Your top 4 merchants are ranked based on the total number of purchases made with each merchant between January 1, 2023, and December 3, 2024.

Changes in Savers

Changes in Savers are shown as a positive or negative AUD value, calculated as the difference in your total Savers balance between January 1, 2024, and December 3, 2024.

Round Ups

Total Round Ups: The sum of all Round Up amounts on successful purchases with Round Ups enabled, calculated from January 1, 2023, to December 3, 2024.

Upsider Round Ups: The average amount saved by Upsiders with Round Ups enabled on their Savers accounts, calculated between January 1, 2023, and December 3, 2024.

Upsider Travel

Total Countries Visited: The total number of unique countries visited by Upsiders, calculated from January 1, 2023, to December 3, 2024.

Top Destinations: The top 4 destinations are ranked based on the estimated number of Upsiders who visited each country in 2024, determined by transaction patterns.

Perk‑Up and Happy Hour

Perk-Up: The total number of coffees won is calculated from the number of confirmed winners from eligible Perk-Up entries made by all Upsiders in 2024. This includes successful purchases of $6.50 or less at any merchant in the 'Restaurant & Cafes' spending category.

Happy Hour: The total number of meals and drinks Upsiders received cashback on is calculated from the number of confirmed winners from eligible Happy Hour entries made by all Upsiders in 2024. This includes successful purchases of $10 or more made between 5-7 PM AEST/AEDT on Fridays in the 'Restaurant & Cafes' or 'Pubs & Bars' spending categories.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: UpYear, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

1 Million Upsiders

We've hit 1 million Upsiders! In our latest blog, CPO Anson Parker reflects on the journey, the challenges, and the features you love most. This milestone is a celebration of our community—and a sneak peek at what's next.

Anson Parker

Nov 22, 2024

Up High

Hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker on why we're building Up High, what it could become, and why you might consider joining Early Access.

Anson Parker

Mar 20, 2024
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.