CX Strategy Lead
About Ferocia

We're the team behind Up, but under the hood, we're Ferocia - a passionate tech company driven by financial inclusion. Since 2011, we've been crafting innovative financial tools, starting with the digital platform for Bendigo Bank. We believe technology can empower everyone, from the advantaged to the disadvantaged, which is why Up was born.

Now, as part of the Bendigo and Adelaide Bank family, we combine the agility of a small company with the reach and stability of a major player. Together, we're carbon neutral, community-focused, and dedicated to high standards of corporate governance. Our mission? To leverage technology to help Australians move from financial stress and anxiety to a place of confidence and empowerment.

Want to join us? We'd love to hear from you

The opportunity
Help shape the future of CX at Up and Bendigo Bank

We're looking for a passionate CX Strategy Lead to join our team and work on an exciting initiative for both Bendigo Bank and Ferocia (Up).

This is a rare chance to join a small but growing team and make a meaningful impact on people's lives.

This role is about maturing our current approach to customer insights and research while leading the discovery, design, and implementation of a group CX function to support both Up and Bendigo Bank teams and customers.

We're after a strategic, hands-on leader who wants to roll up their sleeves, get involved, and help build a highly skilled, empowered team. You'll thrive in this role if you know the value of showing over telling and balancing short-term wins with long-term transformation.

You'll work closely with Nektarea, Head of Customer Experience, who will provide strategic direction and support. A CX Program Manager will partner with you to operationalise plans and align teams. You'll also be supported by experienced researchers and analysts within Up's current CX team, along with seasoned customer experts from Bendigo. To bring this initiative to life, you'll wear many hats and play a key role in shaping the direction of work — showcasing what great CX looks like, influencing decisions, and driving initiatives to successful delivery.

What we're looking for

A seasoned CX strategist and practitioner with about 10 years experience in customer insights and/or CX roles, bringing the following tools in their kit:

CX leadership: Hands-on experience designing and implementing CX and VoC programs that go beyond surveys - incorporating behavioural insights and innovative research methods in complex organisations.
CX research: Master of qualitative and quantitative methods, including journey mapping and behavioural insights. You’re an expert in CX metrics and passionate about using metrics which generate meaningful insights.
Strategy: A visionary thinker who connects the dots between customer needs, business goals and operational realities, balancing vision with practical execution.
Results-driven execution: Skilled at identifying and scaling impactful CX initiatives, demonstrating clear ROI.
Comfort with tech and tools: Experience implementing or using CX platforms (e.g., Qualtrics, Medallia, Salesforce) and analytics tools (e.g., Tableau, Power BI, Metabase).
Empathy and influence: A strong advocate for CX as a team sport, you’re an expert at storytelling, using data-driven insights to inspire and motivate change across all levels of the business. You bring customer and team experiences to life, fostering a culture of empathy while driving impactful transformation.
Team building expertise: Experience leading teams, fostering collaboration, and mentoring talent to build CX capabilities, as this role may evolve into one with direct reports as the CX function grows.
Decisive action: the ability to make quick, wise, and valuable decisions and choose the best course of action.
Passion: Harder to define, but we're looking for people who have a desire to push the limits, break the status quo, and be at the forefront of where customers & technology are leading us. An eagerness to learn, expand your skills, and do the best work possible.
Independence: Comfortable with ambiguity and proactive in identifying and pursuing opportunities. You "get shit done" autonomously while knowing when to ask for help.
Your first three months

Here is what we are going to ask you to do when you start with us:

Lead discovery: Design and execute a 12-week discovery phase to assess the CX and VoC programs across both brands. Map and assess existing capabilities, analyse research, and collaborate with key stakeholders to align on objectives and identify gaps, quick wins and opportunities.
Shape the future of CX for the group: Use discovery insights to propose a roadmap for a group-wide CX and VoC function that builds on existing strengths while addressing the unique needs of each brand. Highlight what’s needed to support and scale this vision effectively.
Integrate insights: Partner with researchers and analysts to create a cohesive framework that blends behavioural, qualitative, and quantitative insights with business objectives.
Establish governance: Develop accountability frameworks and collaboration processes to ensure insights drive meaningful outcomes.
Advocate for customers: Elevate the role of customer insights in strategic decision-making, demonstrating the ROI of great CX at every level of the organisation.
Provide insights and suggestions: To improve how insights are generated and delivered to maximise the value of the work.
Communicate successfully: Within the project teams and at multiple levels of management, building trust across the organisation.
Document ROI or impact: For a given initiative or prioritisation decision.
Present: To executive leadership teams.
Craft and executing on cross functional CX-driven initiatives: Including capturing and defining requirements into impactful work items.
Working at Ferocia

We have a hybrid work culture where people can attend the Ferocia office as much or as little as makes sense for them, but we are currently only hiring in Melbourne (or adjacent areas) as we still value physically getting together at least a half-dozen times per year.

We offer:

A small team of passionate people
Generous leave and parental policy
Flexible working schedule
Great city office and perks (rooftop, gym and personal trainer, games…)
Budget for personal development, training, and conferences
Employee Assistance Program via Sonder
Home loan rebates for our loans (conditions apply)
Ongoing equity grants (conditions apply)

Not quite ticking every box? Throw your hat in the ring anyway! At Ferocia, we're all about shaking things up and rewriting the rules. We thrive on diversity and inclusion, and we wholeheartedly encourage you to step up and shine. Let us be the judge of your qualifications for this role - you just might surprise yourself!

To apply, click here. If the role is still posted, we're still accepting applications!

Explore other positions