Upside Guide
About Ferocia

We're the team behind Up, but under the hood, we're Ferocia - a passionate tech company driven by financial inclusion. Since 2011, we've been crafting innovative financial tools, starting with the digital platform for Bendigo Bank. We believe technology can empower everyone, from the advantaged to the disadvantaged, which is why Up was born.

Now, as part of the Bendigo and Adelaide Bank family, we combine the agility of a small company with the reach and stability of a major player. Together, we're carbon neutral, community-focused, and dedicated to high standards of corporate governance. Our mission? To leverage technology to help Australians move from financial stress and anxiety to a place of confidence and empowerment.

Want to join us? We'd love to hear from you.

Melbourne based only

We’re looking for experienced and passionate customer support professionals to join our Melbourne based team as we continue on our journey to guide over a million Upsiders on the path towards feeling good about money.

We provide support from 6am-12am, 7 days a week through our super-powered in-app chat 'Talk to Us', driven by our 4 distinctive support values.

Your day to day involves injecting these values into each and every interaction and being the magic behind ‘Talk to Us’. There’ll be times you chat with Upsiders over the phone, but the majority of interactions are via written communication, so a strong writing ability is a must.

You’ll learn to navigate, live and breathe our in-house built customer support software, which powers every interaction. Alongside this, you’ll also be taught to use some more traditional systems for handling some of the more serious banking stuff.

You’ll work shoulder-to-shoulder with a talented team of Ferocians who are constantly striving to improve our systems and the overall support experience. You are completely empowered to provide feedback and work alongside our wider team to improve our in-house systems, ultimately leading to a constantly improving and ever-evolving experience for Upsiders.

Though not everyone works shift work, it’s something you’ll need to be comfortable with. It’s not just about shift work though — our team regularly gets together for professional development with our end goal becoming the most loved customer support team in Australia.

This full-time ‘Upside Guide’ role consists of 5 shifts per week (between Monday-Sunday).

You'll work closely with our Customer Experience (CX) and Engineering teams to keep up to date on new features and learn to identify and manage customer complaints. You'll collaborate with your peers to deal with different tasks to keep the experience smooth, including: "What is this charge on my card?", "Here is my ID, can I please have an account?", "Why can't I send my money to this place?" or "I need to buy a house, how do I go about that?" (That's not an exhaustive list!)

The right people for this role will be excited to join a company with a strong culture of quality, continuous improvement, innovation, accountability, and good vibes! You’ll pride yourself on attention to detail and a passion for helping and teaching others.

Experience, Knowledge & Skills
Customer service experience
Banking experience with a knowledge of banking systems (preferred but not a deal breaker)
Phone Support
Process improvement
Tech Savvy
Be Up for change
Working at Ferocia

We have a hybrid work culture where people can attend the Ferocia office as much or as little as makes sense for them, but we are currently only hiring in Melbourne (or adjacent areas) as we still value physically getting together at least a half-dozen times per year.

We offer:

A small team of passionate people
Generous leave and parental policy
Flexible working schedule
Great city office and perks (rooftop, gym and personal trainer, games…)
Budget for personal development, training, and conferences
Employee Assistance Program via Sonder
Home loan rebates for our loans (conditions apply)
Ongoing equity grants (conditions apply)

Not quite ticking every box? Throw your hat in the ring anyway! At Ferocia, we're all about shaking things up and rewriting the rules. We thrive on diversity and inclusion, and we wholeheartedly encourage you to step up and shine. Let us be the judge of your qualifications for this role – you just might surprise yourself!

To apply, click here. If the role is still posted, we're still accepting applications!

Explore other positions