
=== 2up_.txt ===

Take on a new adventure with your Player 2

2Up is a new way to fight finances together in co-op mode. Easily invite your Player 2 and join forces to battle bills, save for shared goals, share expenses and track spending.

Two player enabled
Quick in app set up
One player private
Easy in app closure

2Up gives you a separate world to share finances as one. Your personal accounts stay yours as you start working together with a shared debit account, joint Savers & instant digital cards.

Add your Player 2 in just a few taps and master new connected abilities. Start small with a few bills or go all in and build your financial empire together.

Are you ready to play?

See Who’s
Spending

Keep it clear, share it all, and easily track who's buying what.

Save as
a team

Create Savers you can both contribute to. Power up!

Bills and Budgets in Co‑op

Pay shared bills, view insights and add Trackers for tag‑team budgeting.

Help’s a
2-way Street

Start a 2Up support chat to share the load and solve any problem as a team.

Level Up Together

Whether you're splitting the Netflix bill or saving for a castle of your own, 2Up is more than shared accounts – it’s a collaboration.

Your individual spending stays separate, with privacy and control over what’s yours.

But together you’re unstoppable. With powers combined, you’ll have spending and savings accounts perfect for the stuff you choose to share.

Score New Insights & Spending Moves

You and your Player 2 are blessed with a heightened sense of financial foresight.

2Up equips you both with equal access to your spending insights for ultimate clarity. Know where you’re spending together. Keep track of your shared bills and commitments, and add on Trackers to your categories to really stick to the spending game plan.

Digital Cards Made for Two

Digital cards ensure that you and your Player 2 are one. Instantly add your 2Up card to Apple, Google or other supported digital wallets and start spending together.

You're each your own card master with unique card numbers ready in-app for speedy online spending.

Adding money to 2Up, retrieving card details and finding your account details are light work with quick actions. A swift pull down on your activity feed quickly reveals all.

Plastic 2Up cards are also available for a fee.

Automate Transfers. Equally.

Set up Automated Transfers in or out of your 2Up and personal spending accounts.

Pay yourself and your Player 2 a regular allowance into your personal Up spending to automate your shared budget.

If you prefer to spend as 2, create an automated transfer going the other direction for set and forget equal contributions into 2Up.

2 heads are better than one.

Already have an Up account?
Head to the Up tab in-app to invite your Player 2.


New to Up?
Grab your Player 2 and join in minutes.

Questions?
How do I invite my Player 2?

Tap the 2Up banner on your Up tab to invite your Player 2

If your Player 2 isn’t an Upsider, send them an invite through Hook Up a Mate first.

Can I make a payment with my 2Up? How about direct debits, BPay or Scheduled & Repeating payments?

At release, you will be able to use all the regular Up payment features except payment requests, pay splitting, and International payments.

International payments have to be linked to individual Wise account holders, so you’ll need to use your own Up account for those.

Does this mean my Player 2 sees everything I do?

You will both see every purchase made on your 2Up Spending account, and each purchase will show who bought what. If you contact our Support team, you can choose to both be included in the chat.

And of course, your own Up accounts are completely your own. Neither of you can see, smell or touch the other person’s main Up account.

Can I have two or three accounts? Can I add my whole family?

At this point, 2Up is for two Upsiders only, and each Upsider can be part of one 2Up at a time. Shared accounts (for more than two people) are planned for the future.

So if you had a 2Up with your flatmate you’ll need to shut it down before you make a fresh account with your new Player 2.

What if my Player 2 empties our 2Up and takes off to a tropical island?

You both have full access to spend, transfer or make payments with money in 2Up without requiring permission from each other..

It's important you only join 2Up with someone you know well and trust. Only add money to 2Up you're happy for either of you to spend.

Does Up pay interest on 2Up accounts?

Your 2Up Everyday account is a spending account and does not earn interest. 2Up Savers are eligible to earn bonus interest once unlocked. Purchases made using your 2Up Everyday account contribute to the five transactions needed to unlock bonus interest repayments across both your personal Up Savers and on 2Up Savers. So if between you and your 2Up you make five purchases, you’ll both earn interest on your private Up Savers and 2Up Savers.

At present, Up Savers pay up to 4.35% p.a. for up to $1M in deposits in your Up Savers as well as $1M in your 2Up Savers.

Read the full conditions on our pricing page.

Is it a big deal to close a 2Up?

As soon as your 2Up is empty and all 2Up Savers have been closed, either one of you can close it. Just a few taps and you’re a lone ranger once more.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 

=== Rising2023_.txt ===

Rising 2023 Cash Back and Social Terms and Conditions ('Conditions of Entry')
Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Start date: 07/06/23 at 07:00 pm AEST
End date: 18/06/23 at 07:00 pm AEST

Eligible entrants

Entry and claims are only open to Australian residents who are 18 years and over and existing Up account holders.

How to enter
How to Enter for chance to win tickets:

To enter the Promotion for the chance to win the tickets prize, the entrant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

attend the RISING Night Trade event at 200 Flinders Street, Melbourne VIC 3000 between 07/06/23 until 18/06/23 ('RISING Night Event’);
take a photo or video about their time at the RISING Night Event (‘Photo/Video’); and
upload the Photo/Video to their Instagram or TikTok account and tag @up_banking (via Instagram) or @upbanking (via TikTok).

Entrants must ensure their Instagram account privacy setting is set to public (i.e. not 'private') to be eligible for this Promotion.

How to Claim Cash Back Offer:

To be eligible to claim the cash back offer, the claimant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

attend the RISING Night Event; and
spend at least $4 or more at the Up bar at the RISING Night Event using their Up bank card or digital wallet for payment. 2Up Cards and digital wallets are not eligible.

The first 4,000 valid cash back claims received will each receive a $5 cashback, paid by direct deposit to the claimant’s Up bank account. The cashback will be awarded as an Up Credit. The cashback will be provided to the Up bank account used for the qualifying purchase.

Entries and claims permitted

Only one (1) eligible entry/claim to the cashback offer per person will be accepted. Entries and claims must be completed in accordance with the entry and claim instructions above. Multiple entries can be made for the Chance to Win tickets, however only one win is permitted.

Total prize pool

Social Chance to Win competition: AUD $3,000
Cashback: AUD $20,000

Prize Description

Prize: The Chance to Win prize is 2 x adult tickets to the winner's choice choice of activity from the following 2 options: (1) Ice Skating at the Rising Festival at Birrarung Mar OR (2) Euphoria at Melbourne Town Hall.

Tickets redeemable for one (1) day of the winner’s choice between 07/06/23 until 18/06/23, subject to booking availability. Winners will need to use a Rising booking system to secure tickets.

Number of prizes

50

Value (per prize)

AUD$60.00

Winning Method

Judging

Prize conditions
If the winner is unwilling or unable to attend at the designated time for the event associated with the prize, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
The Ice Skating or Euphoria ticket prizes are subject to the event venue and ticket terms and conditions, including any applicable age restrictions. The Promoter and event organisers hereby expressly reserve the right to eject any winner and/or his/her companion for any inappropriate behaviour, including but not limited to intoxication, whilst participating in any element of the prize.
All costs associated with travel to and from Euphoria at Melbourne Town Hall or Ice Skating at Birrarung Mar, will be the responsibility of the winner and their guest for the prize.
Winning notification

The prize winners will be notified via their Instagram or TikTok account (depending on their method of entry).

Successful recipients of the cash back offer will be notified via an Up in-app notification.

Unclaimed Prizes

In the event of an unclaimed prize, the Promoter may at its discretion assign the prize to the entry judged the next best entry, conduct a further judging to award the prize, or withdraw the prize unawarded. The Promoter is under no obligation to award any unclaimed prize.

The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise. All references to entrant/entry/entries/prize in the following terms equally apply to claimant/claim/claims/cash back offer.
The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
Employees (and their immediate family members) of agencies/companies directly associated with the conduct of this Promotion, the Promoter, businesses involved in determination of winner/s for the Promotion, businesses involved in the management of the Promotion, any organisation benefiting from the Promotion, the Promoter’s distributors, suppliers, subsidiary companies/businesses and associated companies and agencies are not eligible to win the tickets prize (but they may enter the Promotion and also claim the cash back offer). "Immediate family member" means any of the following: spouse, ex-spouse, de-facto spouse, child or step-child (whether natural or by adoption), parent, step-parent, grandparent, step-grandparent, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister or 1st cousin.
Judging:
The Prize winners will be determined by representatives of the Promoter. Each entry will be judged on the basis of the individual creative merit of the Photo or Video provided on entry.
The best 50 valid entries, as determined by the judges, will each win the prize specified in the Schedule above.
The judges may select additional reserve entries which they determine to be the next best, and record them in order, in case of an invalid entry or ineligible entrant.
The winners will be determined by skill. Chance plays no part in determining the winners. The judges' decision is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into.
All reasonable attempts will be made to contact each winner.
If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize by the time specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable at the designated time for the Event, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
Where entry is allowed by purchase or subscription, the cost of the product or service is no greater than the cost would be without the opportunity to participate in the Promotion.
The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and specification.
No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion.
Each prize will be awarded to the person named in the entry and any entry that is made on behalf of an entrant or by a third party will be invalid. If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter is bound by the Australian Privacy Principles in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and its privacy policy which is located at https://up.com.au/privacy/. The Promoter's privacy policy contains information about how the entrant may access, update and seek correction of the personal information the Promoter holds about them and how the entrant may complain about any potential breach by the Promoter of the Australian Privacy Principles or any other Australian privacy laws and how such complaints will be dealt with. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion. Personal information collected from entrants will not be disclosed to any entity located outside of Australia.
For the purposes of public statements and advertisements, the Promoter may only publish the winner's surname, initial and State/Territory or postcode of residence.
The Promoter reserves the right to refuse to allow a winner to take part in any or all aspects of a prize, if the Promoter determines in their absolute discretion, that a winner is not in the physical or mental condition necessary to be able to safely participate in or accept the prize. It is a condition of accepting the prize that a winner may be required to sign a legal release as determined by the Promoter in its absolute discretion, prior to receiving a prize.
If a prize is provided to the Promoter by a third party, the prize is subject to the terms and conditions of the third party prize supplier and the provision of the prize is the sole responsibility of the third party and not the Promoter. The terms and conditions which apply to the prize at the time it is issued to the winner will prevail over these Conditions of Entry, to the extent of any inconsistency. The Promoter accepts no responsibility or liability for any delay or failure by the third party to deliver the prize, any delay or failure relating to the prize itself or failure by the third party to meet any of its obligations in these Conditions of Entry or otherwise.
Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize.
The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
All material submitted on entry (e.g. photo(s), image(s), drawing(s), comment(s), sound/video recording(s) and answer(s) to a promotional question) must NOT: (a) be in breach of any laws, regulations and rights, e.g. any laws regarding intellectual property (copyright, trademarks, etc), defamation and privacy; (b) be defamatory, obscene, derogatory, pornographic, sexually inappropriate, contain nudity, aggressive, violent, abusive, harassing, threatening, objectionable or discriminate/vilify any section of the community with respect to race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, origin, sexual preference, mental illness, disability or gender or unsuitable for publication; or (c) contain viruses. Entrants warrant that they own or have the right to license the copyright in any entry submitted by them into this Promotion, for the purposes of this Promotion, that no rights have been granted to any third party in respect of any such entry which would prevent the entry being used as contemplated by this Promotion, and that the use by the Promoter of any such entry will not breach any laws or infringe the rights of any person (including without limitation with respect to privacy, intellectual property and defamation). Entrants must obtain prior consent from any person or from the owner(s) of any property that appears in their entry. By entering, all entrants license and grant the Promoter, its affiliates and sub-licensees an exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, and sub-licensable right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish and display their entry (including any portion of their entry) for any purpose, including but not limited to future promotional, marketing or publicity purposes, in any media, without compensation, restriction on use, attribution or liability. Entrants further agree, upon request by the Promoter, to assign all of their rights, title and interest (including copyright) in and to their entry to the Promoter and to sign any legal documentation to confirm such assignment. Entrants agree that their entry is their original work and does not infringe the rights of third parties, or that they have obtained full prior consent from any person who has jointly created or has any rights in the aforementioned material. Entrants consent to any use of their entry that may otherwise infringe their moral rights. Entrants are responsible for all entries they submit on entry. The Promoter will not be liable for any entries, to the extent permitted by law. The Promoter reserves the right to remove, request removal or decline to publish any entry or portion of an entry for any reason whatsoever, including if in breach of these Terms and Conditions. The Promoter will have no liability to entrants if it exercises this right and entrants must comply with any request made by the Promoter pursuant to this paragraph. The entrant warrants and represents that any material sent or provided by the entrant to the Promoter will not infringe any copyright, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of any third party (including moral rights) and that the entrant has all rights to use the materials and has obtained all necessary consents to comply with any relevant privacy and/or confidentiality requirements. Entrants agree to indemnify the Promoter for any breach of the Terms and Conditions including this clause.
The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion or claiming a prize, the Promoter will resolve the dispute in direct consultation with the entrant. If the dispute cannot be resolved the Promoter’s decision will be final.
The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or wilful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation), except for any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in which case that liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
The entrant will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
Unless otherwise specified, a prize is a single event for the winner (and where relevant their guests) and cannot be separated into separate events or components.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 7 June 2023

=== about_.txt ===

About Up
We’re a passionate team of engineers, designers and dreamers reinventing banking.
It started with a dream of something better

In the beginning, we were a partnership: Bendigo Bank and Ferocia.

Together we had big ideas about how banking could be better for young Australians. And together we knew we could make it real. Ferocia is a tight team, with a fierce lion mascot and international experience building best-in-class tech for banks. Bendigo has all the banking know-how and a proven way to invest Upsiders’ money ethically. We’d worked together for seven years already, and we knew there was love and trust 💕

I am legit spinning around on my chair being like I wonder what else I can save for
- via Talk To Us | July 2020
Upsiders Assemble

We launched Up in October 2018 and it's grown at rocket speed, becoming bigger and better loved than even we thought possible. The Ferocia team is bigger now and we’ve officially joined the Bendigo family (hey, if you like it then you better put a ring on it). We now help over 1,000,000 customers (😮) and we’re still laser-focused on building the best digital banking experience on earth. We share our lunches and our bike rides, we will not let anyone win at Mario Kart, and we’re listed as one of Australia’s Best Places to Work.

We want that family feeling to extend to you. If you contact us via our ‘Talk to Us’ chat function you’ll know for sure that we’re real people, who really are here for you, seven days a week.

Our Reason for Being...is You.

It’s been getting harder for Australians to get a start on the financial ladder and make progress towards their goals. So Up reimagined things to make money easy; tools to save without stress, know where you’re at, and put your money on cruise control.

Some of our favourite bits include monthly fee-free accounts, dancing Saver pools you can fill up towards your goals, Payment Requests that make splitting bills smooth, and Pay Splitting that helps you automate your budget… even if you’re juggling casual pay, or working a side hustle. Go, you little red fire engine.

I love being able to forward payments and set up multiple savers so I can see my progress on each one... Plus, they invest ethically. And they communicate 🤯
- Lisa W
What we’ve achieved together so far

The Upsider community is the heartbeat that pushes us forward every day. You’ve helped us to design Up and make it better. You’ve grown our family when you hooked up your mates (more than half of all Upsiders were referred by a mate). And some of you have really strong GIF game, which makes our days brighter.

In the short while since our launch, Upsiders have saved more than $205M via Round-Ups and ‘hard mode’ Boosted Round Ups, deposited more than $19B into our Savers, and sent us countless pictures of your dogs and bunnies (thank you). We have big plans — so get on board ;)

Our commitment to you

Up is for everyone. We want our app to work well for you regardless of age, background, education, race, gender, or abilities. Listening and responding to your feedback is baked into our process. You help make Up better and we’re always open to new possibilities about how to manage money differently. We read every bit of feedback that comes in (yes, really).

So if you want to have more say, and you want to be part of shaping the future of money, hit “Talk to Us” in our app and let’s start a conversation.

I recommend this bank to literally everyone - especially those who find budgeting hard! If you have trouble with setting goals, budgets, or you just need multiple savings accounts, Up is where it’s at.
- karlidixon
Up Up and Away

Staying true to who we are has helped us create a company we’re proud to run and is a joy to work for.

In order to continue to grow with you and for you, we stand by our commitment to financial literacy, honesty and openness. Check out our public product roadmap, the Tree of Up to see what we have planned for the future.

=== api-acceptable-use-policy_.txt ===

API Acceptable Use Policy

At this time the Up API is provided for your personal use only.

The Personal Access Token (“token”) provides access to your account - do not share your token with anyone.

Provided you’re using your token for personal projects it’s unlikely you’ll come up against any of the following prohibitions. The following behaviour may result in your token being revoked and/or access to the API suspended:

Sharing your token with a 3rd party (including a partner or relative)
Exceeding a reasonable request volume or otherwise attempting to disrupt or break the API service
Attempting to probe for undocumented call points or data that’s not your own
Attempting to extract data (such as merchant data) for use in commercial applications

You are responsible for the security of your token and we are not responsible or liable should your token be disclosed, even unintentionally, to a third party.

Whilst we endeavour to keep the API online, we make no guarantee around the API’s uptime/availability and we may suspend access for any reason without notice.

Last updated 30 July, 2020

=== bank-overseas-without-the-fees_.txt ===

WE’VE GOT YOUR BACK, NO MATTER WHERE YOU’RE AT.
TRAVEL LIKE A LOCAL

Toggle Travel Mode on to see your balance in AUD and the local currency of the country you're in.

Buying something overseas? Our currency conversion calculator does the thinking for you. Convert the local currency amount to AUD so you know exactly what you're paying before you tap your card.

NO EXTRA FEES.

You’ll pay no fees on international purchases in-person or online. You’ll also get the same exchange rate we get from Mastercard, with no markups or conversion fees. Straight up.

Get cash out with your Up card for free at any international ATM that accepts Mastercard. Some ATMs charge their own additional fees, but they’ll let you know that before you withdraw.

NO GUESSING, NO STRESSING.

When you make a purchase overseas, you’ll immediately see the amount in the local currency and in AUD, with the conversion rate included so you know exactly what you’re paying then and there.

SAFE TRAVELS.

We’ve built easy-to-use security features & card controls into the app so you can lock down and manage your card if it’s lost, stolen or damaged abroad.

Check out Card Controls

SEND MONEY EASY.

We integrated with Wise to make sending money overseas easy. Pay no exchange rate markups, see how much you’re paying in fees and know exactly how much your mates overseas receive in their local currency.

Learn about Up x Wise

GET SET UP IN MINUTES.

Join Up today to travel easy and spend freely.

Cards can take 15-20 business days to arrive, so if you’ve just signed up and are heading overseas soon, get in touch with our team via the Talk to Us tab in-app so we can make sure it gets to you in time.

TRAVEL CHECKLIST
1. ACTIVATE YOUR CARD

When your physical card arrives, make sure to scan the QR code to activate.

2. CHECK YOUR CARD(S) EXPIRY

If your physical card isn’t brand new, make sure it won’t expire when you’re overseas.

3. CREATE A DIGITAL “ZAP” CARD

It can’t be misplaced or lost, making it extra secure. To activate, check out the ‘Cards’ tab in-app, under your Account settings.

4. ADD CARDS TO YOUR WALLET

Make sure all your digital cards are added to your digital wallet. They’ll be kept safe and sound together.

5. CHECK YOUR PASSPORT

While you’re at it, check the expiry date on your passport. You’ll want it to be valid for at least 6 months when you depart.

DOWNLOAD UP NOW

=== blog_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

UpYear 2024 has landed!

We’re ready for launch. Blast off on a journey through your 2024 spending & saving habits with UpYear.

Up

Dec 09, 2024

1 Million Upsiders

We've hit 1 million Upsiders! In our latest blog, CPO Anson Parker reflects on the journey, the challenges, and the features you love most. This milestone is a celebration of our community—and a sneak peek at what's next.

Anson Parker

Nov 22, 2024

Up High

Hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker on why we're building Up High, what it could become, and why you might consider joining Early Access.

Anson Parker

Mar 20, 2024

Auto Covers Preview Release

For a deep dive into the what, why and how behind Auto Covers, hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker, as he takes us on a journey back through time, before moving forward into the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 06, 2024

UpYear is Here!

Let’s wrap up your 2023. Get your Spending and Saving insights from the other side.

Up

Dec 19, 2023

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

A night with Poncili Creación

At this year's RISING festival, we sat down with one half of the creatively unhinged duo, Poncili Creación to chat dreams, underground artists and seagulls. Yep, seagulls.

Up

Jun 29, 2023

UP x RISING

Melbourne’s premier art, music, food and culture festival RISING is done and dusted for 2023 after 12 evenings under moonlight in the heart of town.

Up

Jun 23, 2023

2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here.

Up

May 15, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_1-million-customers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

1 Million Customers
Back to Blog

1 Million Upsiders

We've hit 1 million Upsiders! In our latest blog, CPO Anson Parker reflects on the journey, the challenges, and the features you love most. This milestone is a celebration of our community—and a sneak peek at what's next.

Anson Parker

Nov 22, 2024

=== blog_1-million-upsiders_.txt ===

1 Million Upsiders

Updates

We did it. We’ve officially joined the Two Comma Club—1,000,000 Upsiders and counting. Just over five years ago, we were celebrating our first 100,000. Back then, it was clear we were onto something special, but even we couldn’t have predicted the wild ride ahead. In 2019, we ended the year on a high—our tyres were pumped to 60psi after a huge response from both you—our customers—and the industry in our first full year.

We held our inaugural Spring Tree event, where we got to meet so many of you, share our vision, and geek out over what was coming next. By the end of the year, we were dreaming big, even scouting new office spaces with rooftop decks and beer taps. Essentials for any bank, right?

Then came the curveball: a water leak delayed our new lease signing. Fortunately, that turned out to be a blessing in disguise—by March 2020, the world was turned on it’s head. COVID-19 hit, and Up HQ became a ghost town. Overnight, we had to find a way to keep the magic alive while working remotely. Through it all, you continued to show up for us, and we made sure to keep showing up for you.

Looking back at the chaos of 2020, it’s incredible to see what we managed to achieve. We delivered some of our most-loved features: Upnames, Covers & Forwards, Up-to-Up payments & replies, Wise international payments, Saver Pools (our visualiser for savers), and more.

The feature train continued to roll. In 2021 we shipped Payment Requests, Spendable Balance and 2Up just to name a few. By September we’d been acquired. With 400,000 customers we officially became a part of Bendigo Bank. Was this the beginning of the end? It wasn’t. Why? because we had a secret weapon that would see us through…

Our Secret Weapon

Up has something no other bank in Australia does—an incredibly loyal and vocal customer base that’s passionate about bringing their mates, significant others, co-workers, and family over to The Upside. In fact, 4 out of every 5 new Upsiders join because of a recommendation from someone they know.

This level of advocacy is practically unheard of in our industry, and it’s something we wear as a badge of honour. We believe our customers are our greatest asset, which is why we invest so heavily in making life better on The Upside for the customers we already have—not just those we don’t have.

Beyond bringing in new faces, you’ve been incredible at keeping us on our toes, offering frank and fair feedback which has become a consistent and valued part of our relationship. You’ve also been an amazing source of ideas. One of the best parts of what we do is circling back to let customers know when a feature they asked for has shipped! Some examples…

Locked Savers: As a bank, we consider it our number one job to keep your money safe and give you access to it when you want it. Turns out you had other ideas. From the early days, we had consistent requests to make it harder to access your hard fought savings. Enter Locked Savers — a 3 hour delay in getting access to your money has become the number one weapon in Up’s impulse control arsenal.

Interest Opt-out: Again, filed under “Things banks should always do” is pay interest on savings. But some of you had other ideas, didn’t you? For years we’ve seen regular requests for Savers without the sauce — Upsiders not wanting to earn interest on their savings. Frequently, but not exclusively, for religious reasons, we shipped the ability to opt-out of interest in September.

Life's better on The Upside

Hitting 1 million customers is a milestone we couldn’t have reached without you—our community of loyal, passionate Upsiders. To celebrate, here’s a look at some of the ways we’ve been giving back—and maybe even a sneak peek at something new on the horizon. Check out a couple of our highlights from our "Better on the Upside" initiatives over the years:

Perk Up: Three years of free coffees

Perk Up has been spreading morning joy across the country for the past three years with random acts of free coffee. Running weekdays from 7–11am, this promotion has seen over 5 million entries and more than 100,000 lucky winners. That’s more than $500K worth of coffees covered by Up. A little boost to start the day, on us!

Happy Hour: Cheers to Friday knock-off freebies

Happy Hour has been bringing the good vibes to Friday knock-offs, giving Upsiders the chance to score cash back on drinks and food every week. With 370,124 entries and 38,756 winners so far, we’ve covered $287,981.52 in Friday knock-off freebies. It’s our way of helping you start the weekend with a happy ending.

The Upside Cash Splash 1 Million:

Next week, our Cash Splash promotion kicks off, beginning Monday (Nov 25), millions of cents will rain down upon Upsiders daily, with the Final Splashdown on Friday. Make sure you’re on the latest version of the Up app come Monday at 9am AEDT—as the cash storm begins to roll in.

Got any ideas on how Perk-Up and Happy Hour could be better? Let us know through Talk To Us, so we can keep improving it.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: 1 Million Customers

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up High

Hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker on why we're building Up High, what it could become, and why you might consider joining Early Access.

Anson Parker

Mar 20, 2024

Auto Covers Preview Release

For a deep dive into the what, why and how behind Auto Covers, hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker, as he takes us on a journey back through time, before moving forward into the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 06, 2024
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_2-up_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

2Up
Back to Blog

2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here.

Up

May 15, 2023

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Ready, but not really ready (eek!) to share money? Ash and Nathan used 2Up to restart their financial lives; this time in co-op mode.

Nathan and Ash

Nov 30, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021

=== blog_23-easy-ways-to-save-this-summer_.txt ===

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Saving, Spending and Budgeting, How to Up

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

The sunshine season is for savouring – not stressing. And don’t all of us over here living on Slurpee budgets want to live that swim up bar lifestyle?

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

1. Walk it, bike it, get there for free.

The best saving tips pay double. Slip slop slap then self propel: you’ll save $ on transport AND invest in your health 💪

2. Chill at the park, the beach, or at home.

Park picnics where you all bring something are what memories are made of – and closing time can be whenever the sun comes back up again.

Turn Your Cents Into Centuries
Learn more about Round Ups
3. Round Up money on what you buy.

Pick any Up Saver and set on your Round Ups. A few cents from everything you buy will go into that Saver, and a little can add up to a lot. Say you Rounded Up a buck daily this sunny season – that’d give you a magic little $90 come March, pain free.

4. Pack your own snacks.

But make them good snacks. Whether it’s iced watermelon or just an insulated water bottle, taking nice things with you might cost a touch more than that muesli bar that’s been hanging out at the bottom of your backpack since 2019 – but also, you also might actually eat them 🍉

5. Libraries are for cool people (literally).

If you haven’t stepped inside a library since Mrs Tunstall took you in year Eight, you might be surprised at how much your free card gets you now. Start with the free aircon and move on to books, audiobooks, and even streaming TV.

6. Pick that old hobby back up.

Look, we know we’re not the only ones with a stash of Fimo clay and an unpainted box of Warhammer figurines at the back of the wardrobe. Is this summer your moment to finally revisit the hobby stash and see what feels fresh again?

7. Save Up 1000, slowly.

Join the Save Up 1000 challenge. It’s literally designed to be the easiest way to save, and in a year you’ll have a literal thousand bucks. Literally.

8. Sell something you don’t want.

Listing stuff for sale is as easy as pointing your phone at that weird Chrissie present from Aunty Marge and voila, it’s listed on Marketplace.

(Never sold stuff? Check out our post on how to do it safely and avoid scammers. Though most people are just ace humans trying to get a discount pair of Docs.)

Map Out And Nail Your Money Goals With Savers
Learn more about Savers
9. Lock away some money.

Want something big? Set a lock on it so you can’t get that money till you really, really want it. A quick and priceless gift to future you. Go you little red fire engine.

10. Cancel what you’re not using.

Now that you’re hooked up with that sweet library action, is there a streaming service you could lose? Nobody’s suggesting you live Spotify-free, but it can really pay to decide to use, say, Netflix this month and pause Binge till winter hits.

11. Look for a cheaper way to get what you are using.

Sure, there’s shared accounts and such – but be creative! Like — if you’re a gamer, there’s subscription services out there with almost unlimited stuff to play for a few bucks a month, so get into something a bit different to the A1 titles.

12. Macklemore it.

Op shops aren’t just a great way to spend an arvo, they’re your best source of crazy festival threads, and winter goodies for the year to come. Pro tip from our team: take a trip to the fancy suburbs. After Christmas they’re full of the newest stuff, and sometimes some damn fine coats for the year ahead too.

13. Hide money you can’t spend.

Out of sight, out of mind. Spendable in your Up is a new kind of way to look at your bank balance. Tell Up your Pay Day and what regular bills you’ll have to pay. Then Up can show you only the money that’s really yours to spend on Calippos and a new pair of boardshorts, after the phone bill’s taken care of.

14. Learn how to fix or clean one thing.

You know those ‘white’ trainers you don’t wear any more cause they’re grey and manky? Ten minutes of YouTube could leave you with fresh-as kicks and the price of new ones still in your (digital) pocket 👟

15. Dodge the gym membership.

Look this is a personal one, and for heaps of people gyms totally make sense. But beware of the red hot January offers that promise you a hot bod for a few bucks (till Feb when it costs $50 a week). What’s the fine print?

And PS: you look 🔥 just the way you are.

16. Save for what you want. Dodge impulse buys.

January’s full of ads for things that will totally definitely make you a whole new you… some are legit and some only feel shiny for a little while. Why not save for all of them, then buy the ones you definitely still want when you have the $?

17. Decide what makes you happy – and forget the rest.

Stop buying things you don't need to impress people you don't like. Measuring your summer (or your life for that measure) against anyone else’s is a waste of your precious time. Say no to stuff that gets you more likes on Insta than true joy. Sit back on that free park bench and say Om.

18. Don’t buy all your coffees (but maybe do buy some).

The perfect iced latte is a beautiful thing. Somebody makes it for you and hands it to you with a pretty paper straw: perfection.

When you’re battling impulse spending, giving yourself a little treat can make all the difference. And you might be surprised, when you think about it, how little joy the second cup contains. In our experience, having one perfect thing can be everything.

19. Go veg – or a bit more veg than your current level of veg.

You do make friends with salad – especially with your wallet. If your new year plan is to add a few more carrots to the daily reps, it can also make a massive difference to your weekly spend. And if you need some good vibes and inspo…

20. Cook with mates.

We all know that food prep is a money saver but also would rather swim with a Great White than spend a hot Summer Sunday alone over the stove. So why not make it a party? All you need is a mate (or three) and a big pot. One huge batch of pasta sauce + a few mates + BYO containers sorts a good night together and food for the week too 🍝

21. Start an emergency fund.

Using your January ‘new me’ energy to start an emergency Saver (no matter how small) could put you on the path to saving and feeling chill all year. Goodbye catch-up mode.

22. Get to know auctions .

Moving out or changing situations this year? When you’re after big stuff like furniture and cars, there’s a whole underground scene of places that sell or auction off overstock or discontinued items. Hit Google up for auction houses, ‘ex fleet’ sellers and ‘ex demonstration’ sellers near you. You might be shocked how massive the difference can be.

23. Live in the moment.

Summer is magic. The warm breeze on your skin, the smell of sunscreen and mozzie repellent, a cold Bubble-O Bill just when you need it. The best saving tip we can offer you is to forget about stuff you buy, for a while, and go enjoy the stuff that’s free.

Saving isn’t everything in life, and sometimes it’s only right to buy the whole watermelon. But a little extra money comes in handy too. We hope you’ve found a little bit of inspo here on ways to keep life a little more balanced than before.

With love and a party at the beach 🏖️

The Up Team

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Summer, Money with mates

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

How to Save for a Baby

Truth is, no one ever plans perfectly for a baby. Sometimes we don’t even get the option to try. Here's an Up team member's take on what you can control, and how you can prep your space and your Savers to meet the new arrival.

Anne Shea

Dec 14, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2022

Up

Dec 13, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_2up-plastic-cards_.txt ===

2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Cards, 2Up

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here. We know it’s been a long time coming, so we wanted to say thanks to all of you who’ve been waiting so patiently. And to those of you waiting impatiently too. Cheers 😘

As a bank, and as humans, introducing more plastic into the world comes with some considerations, so we wanted to take the time we needed to get it right. We look forward to a world where plastic cards are no longer necessary. While that's true most of the time, there are still occasions when they're needed.

Before we released 2Up Plastic, we wanted the confidence to be able to say with conviction that we’d carefully thought it through, given the significant impact plastic has on our planet. So the newest addition to Up’s card family is a more environmentally-friendly option, forged from 82% recycled materials — packaged up and delivered in a recyclable mailer.

As an Upsider, you’ll know that we don’t charge any monthly fees which would usually fund the cost of a physical card, so we’ve introduced a one-time $10 charge to cover the production costs. Our plan is to keep building an experience that everyone can use for free and add in some cool extras along the way that not everyone will want or need — like 2Up Plastic.

In addition to this, $1 from every card sold goes towards our new mates & partners at Seabin. If you’re not familiar with the work Seabin are doing, they’re an Australian-based team who dedicate their time to cleaning up plastic and other waste from oceans around the globe with their innovative environmental projects. You can check out all things Seabin over on their website.

While we aren’t changing the world yet, we’re going to carry on down the road of sustainability and continue to support organisations like Seabin who follow the same path. We’re rapt to be partnering with their team and back them in on all the great things they’re doing in the conservation space.

Getting it on with 2Up Plastic.
2Up — collaborative finances for couples
Level up with 2Up

If you’ve got your heart set on a 2Up Plastic Card, you can order one in-app directly to your door by tapping the banner under the 2Up tab. But being that we’re digital by default, we’ll always encourage you to first look at alternatives to using plastic cards.

For instance, if you have a physical card linked to your personal Up account, transferring funds across from 2Up into your personal account is an easy way to get around using another plastic card. Or take the Zap Card for example, our digital money messiah — still #1 in our hearts.

At the end of the day, you’ve got plenty of options to decide what works best for you. And no matter what decision you end up making, we’re confident it’ll be an EA$Y one.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Money with mates

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_a-beautiful-chaotic-machine_.txt ===

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Upsider Stories, How to Up, Spending and Budgeting, Saving

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Hi, I’m Ollie. I’m 28 years old from Adelaide, I work in a pet store and I’m studying to be a zookeeper. I also make soap and play dungeons and dragons in my spare time. I have a cute mix-breed dog named Poppy and 6 gorgeous fish!

I also have ADHD. And I always tell people that Up has been the biggest game changer for me in this regard.

ADHD and money… stuff works differently.

ADHD is a neurological condition that affects many areas of a person’s life, including working memory (remembering what you’re doing), attention, focus, impulse control, sense of time, and emotional regulation, to name a few.

This happens because people with ADHD have a brain that struggles to move signals around, which makes it hard to feel a sense of reward, and also makes it hard for certain signals (like telling yourself to get up!) to move around the brain and turn into actions. It affects us all differently but it almost always comes with challenges in these areas, usually referred to collectively as “executive dysfunction”.

A really common problem with the condition is financial management. It ticks all of the boxes of “things that are hard to do with ADHD”. It’s boring. You have to hold on for delayed gratification. You need to remember and keep track of a lot of things (eek) and even worse, when you have an impulse you need to resist!

Before I was using Up I had a very hard time with money management. I paid a lot of money to subscriptions I wasn’t using and forgot I signed up for. I would forget to put money in savings, bills would be due faster than I thought and I ended up losing what little savings I had to late fees.

Impulse purchasing was a big problem. I often would only think about the money in my account when making purchases, not what fees were coming up or savings that I needed to put away.

I remember when I was looking to get a dog and my beautiful girl showed up on gumtree. I wanted her so badly and didn’t even think it through. She was at our house by the end of the next day, having spent almost all of my fortnightly pay on her adoption fee and supplies. I didn’t have food money (for myself, she was fed!) for two weeks after that and had to borrow money from my family.

Of course I don’t regret having her in my life, but the two-week struggle certainly was a bit of a wake-up call that I needed a better plan and a better system.

My system: Up Savers + Spendable

When I discovered Up I could see straight away how I could use it differently.

Map Out And Nail Your Money Goals With Savers
Learn more about Savers

I went ahead and made a Saver for everything I could possibly want to put money aside for, and set my pay to split across all of them. That’s bills, emergency funds, a home loan (not hopeful but🤞), present funds, and a ‘buffer’. That’s step one.

Then I just look at only my spendable amount. That’s how I know what I’m working with that week. This works so well with my ADHD because instead of forgetting that I need to put money into my Savers, I actually kind of forget what I have in there, so I don’t feel the temptation to use it.

Buffer Brilliance

You may have noticed one oddball Saver. My “buffer” account is my lifesaver. As I said, impulse control and working memory are difficult for me, my buffer is a big workaround for when I’m not winning any battles against my brain, and it’s the best thing I’ve ever done. I put away a teeny bit a week, enough for like a few cheap meals, and because it happens automatically with Pay splitting, I forget about it.

Then when it’s only halfway through the week and I realise I’ve spent way more than I thought I have? Worst feeling, but when I desperately go searching for pennies I can pull out there’s my buffer, keeping me fed til payday. If I don’t end up using it, I either keep it there so that I can treat myself when my mental health is particularly bad later, or I can move it to emergency funds and slowly grow that.

My Beautifully Chaotic Machine

Most of my financial life runs automatically now, and subscription services that used to be dangerously forgettable are now preferred because they can slot right into my beautifully chaotic machine.

This little way of flexing Up to meet my brain where it fits best, has made such a huge difference in my life. Being able to work independently, and with my mental health instead of against it, has been so empowering and freeing. Even when my income is a bit low and those savers go down, I’m no longer panicking because I know as long as the machine keeps moving it’ll be okay eventually.

Ollie

Tags: Savings Goals, Mental health, ADHD

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2021

Up

Dec 14, 2021

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Ready, but not really ready (eek!) to share money? Ash and Nathan used 2Up to restart their financial lives; this time in co-op mode.

Nathan and Ash

Nov 30, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_a-night-with-poncili-creacion_.txt ===

A night with Poncili Creación

Out and about

Music, food, arts & cultural festival RISING has just wrapped up after a 12 - night moonlit stint revolving around Flinders Street Station in the heart of Naarm / Melbourne.

We partnered up with RISING for the second consecutive year, this time to forge Night Trade — an animated nerve - centre on the grounds of the iconic St Paul’s Cathedral. Punters were treated to intimate live music from local & international acts, hawker - style food, mutating art installations & dynamic theatrical performances — designed to overload the senses and spark vitality throughout the city.

It came as no surprise to us that stealing the show were Puerto Rican twin brothers Efrain & Pablo Del Hierro aka the art collective Poncili Creción. Known for their untethered, unhinged artistry and performances, the brothers treated all those in attendance to an experience they’ll never forget.

When Efrain & Pablo are in the zone, getting them to stay put in the one spot takes some serious hustling, but in the midst of their residency at Night Trade, we caught up with Efrain for some general banter and to chat about the other - worldly concepts of Poncili Creción.




Up: Thanks for chatting with us tonight.

Firstly, your performance was f - ing sick — I feel like I’m on an acid trip everywhere I look.

Where do you see these creatures ? Are they from your dreams ?

Efrain: First of all, thank you. Thanks to RISING for trusting in us.

Yeah, I have dreams. I have constant visions of a different Earth. I have pressing and urgent thoughts in my mind to translate what I’m feeling to people. The way we do it is super strange and left field — we use accessible imagery with what people call our “puppets”.

We feel we can really infiltrate people’s minds and ask them to imagine and dream without telling them how to do it — this is what capitalism does, what the ad industry does, so we try to do the opposite of that.

Up: You certainly do. You’ve created creatures that are recognisable even though we’ve never seen anything quite like it! It’s beautiful.

Now, I know you and your brother collaborate on so much together, but if you could collaborate with any artist dead or alive, who would it be ?

Efrain: I mean, we’re super interested in unrecognised artists and people that don’t yet have that ‘artist’ label. For example, we just did a huge art exhibition with kids. I’d love to do plays with thousands of kids, you know, I’d love to be involved in a massive public experience.

These are the kinds of artists I look up to, those who haven’t yet polished their artist ego — they just want to do things. I feel much closer to them than any “artist”.

Up: Absolutely. There’s no influence. It’s pure.

Time for a more serious question — if there were a flock of birds coming at you from every direction, how many do you think you could fight off at once ?

Efrain: Oh, I guess I could probably fight off 10 with my left and 10 with my right hand. I would also grab one with my mouth.

Up: Well, that’s the highest count we’ve had so far. That’s good to know.

Up: Another serious one, what is the appropriate amount of time you can know somebody before peeing in front of them ?

Efrain: Immediately if you turn around, but probably a year before you could make eye contact.

Up: I like that. You’ve gotta work your way up to that eye contact. I’ll remember that for next time.

Now, you work with your brother, who’s also your work partner, but he’s also your twin. Growing up, did you two ever successfully swap places or pretend to be the other twin ?

Efrain: That classical twins hijinks, you have to do it. We probably didn’t do it as much as we should have but you know, that joke of making someone believe that we were only one person, yeah.

Being a twin is really a tool that you can utilise, there’s a very profound connection, it’s someone you know you can work really well with, you don’t have to explain everything — they just know.

Up: Yeah, they’re already on your level — that’s obvious from your work together. We have absolutely nothing but praise for what you’ve created here.

Efrain: Thank you. We really respect the people out there that are trying to, you know, break the box and stay out of the norm.

I just wanted to say too, we’re currently hiring groups of people, the name of our company that runs this whole interactive experience is ‘Smiles and Likes’. Come get hired, come get fired and come see what it’s all about. Thank you to Melbourne for having us.

Up: Brilliant. We’ll spread the word. Cheers!

For all thingsPoncili Creación

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Rising, Activations

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

UP x RISING

Melbourne’s premier art, music, food and culture festival RISING is done and dusted for 2023 after 12 evenings under moonlight in the heart of town.

Up

Jun 23, 2023

2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here.

Up

May 15, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_activations_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Activations
Back to Blog

A night with Poncili Creación

At this year's RISING festival, we sat down with one half of the creatively unhinged duo, Poncili Creación to chat dreams, underground artists and seagulls. Yep, seagulls.

Up

Jun 29, 2023

UP x RISING

Melbourne’s premier art, music, food and culture festival RISING is done and dusted for 2023 after 12 evenings under moonlight in the heart of town.

Up

Jun 23, 2023

=== blog_adhd_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

ADHD
Back to Blog

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

=== blog_afterpay_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Afterpay
Back to Blog

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019

=== blog_afterpaying-with-up_.txt ===

Afterpaying with Up

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions. Today we’re pleased to announce an important step along that journey. With today’s release, Up has become the best way to Afterpay.

Millions of Australians have embraced Afterpay as a way to pay for everything from clothing and sporting goods through to car maintenance and dental work. While Afterpay has its critics, their customers truly love the service. Fan groups across Facebook, for example, attract hundreds of thousands of supporters.

While Afterpay currently provides information to customers through SMS notifications and in the Afterpay app, we felt there was a role to play for Up in helping our customers better understand their Afterpay activity — both in terms of their past spend as well as their upcoming commitments.

Up now lets you simply and securely connect to your Afterpay account. Doing so unlocks some amazing enhancements. But first, let’s get connected.

Getting Started

To get started, simply find any Afterpay transaction in your Up activity feed (you must have at least one to begin) and tap it. On the receipt you’ll see a panel prompting you to connect to Afterpay. Follow the instructions to complete setup.

Connect to Afterpay from any Afterpay transaction receipt
Smart Receipts

Instead of simply just showing Afterpay as the merchant (they do the charging on behalf of their merchants) we can now show the name, logo and category of the business you made the purchase at. Up shows you where you are up to in your four payments and the amount remaining to pay. In most cases Up will even list the items you purchased.

Before and after connecting to Afterpay
Upcoming

Our Upcoming screen now includes your future Afterpay instalments alongside your regulars. And you get the same great features — a heads-up a couple of days before payment is due and a special note if you need to top up your balance to cover the charge. You can now see a 30 day total that includes both your regulars as well as Afterpay charges.

Purchases from THE ICONIC and Deus Ex Machina made via Afterpay

We think using Afterpay through Up enables a new level of responsible spending. It is a glimpse into where we see the Up activity feed progressing — into a place that provides great visibility and understanding around your money and leads to better informed decisions.

We’re keen to hear what you think of our solution.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Afterpay, Smart receipts

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_android-widgets_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Android Widgets
Back to Blog

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

=== blog_api_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

API
Back to Blog

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Ready, but not really ready (eek!) to share money? Ash and Nathan used 2Up to restart their financial lives; this time in co-op mode.

Nathan and Ash

Nov 30, 2021

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

=== blog_api_lets_hack_on_banking_.txt ===

Announcing the Up API

How to Up, Updates

Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API and mark the introduction of the first new channel for accessing your Up data outside of our smartphone app.

Our API gives you the power to develop your own software that can retrieve your balances (spending and saving) and transactions, and get notified in real time about new activity (yep, we're shipping real time web hooks today too - more details below).

This initial beta release is limited in scope and meant for personal use only. That means we're giving you a simple way to access your own Up data but not yet supporting the ability for developers to build integrations and applications for other Upsiders. Support for 3rd party apps will be coming in the future - they're really important to us and a big reason why we're developing an API.

Up API vs Open Banking

Open Banking has received prominent and frequent coverage in the media so you might reasonably ask "Where's Up's Open Banking support?". While we're working to support Open Banking in the near future, we believe there's more immediate value for our customers in delivering this Up API first.

Open Banking and the Consumer Data Right does not necessarily let you directly access your own data. Instead, you must go through an accredited "data recipient" that accesses the data on your behalf (and with your permission). Often these recipients will be accessing your data in order to provide you with financial products or tools. But what if you just want your data?

With our own API and trust models we're able to give you direct access to your data without needing to go through a middleman. But more than that, we can provide real-time updates so you can know as soon as money comes in or goes out. This will unlock amazing potential far beyond what will be possible (at least in the short term) with Open Banking.

Using the Up API will also allow you to extend Up to suit your own needs. For example, in the future you'll be able to build your own tools to automate transfers or develop your own custom round-up logic.

Web hooks

Web hooks are a brilliant technology that free you from the need to constantly query the Up API to check for new transactions (you should know our feelings on pull-to-refresh by this stage - try it in the app if you're unclear). Instead, web hooks allow us to communicate with your app anytime a transaction happens. It's software's version of "don't call us, we'll call you". But we actually call!

This makes it possible to build all kinds of amazing applications and integrations. A bell on your desk that rings any time someone pays you? No problem. Hooking up your sprinkler system so it literally "makes it rain" when you get a salary payment? Inadvisable, but totally do-able.

Web hooks are offered by many great software companies to make real time integrations with their platforms a reality. We believe money gets better in real time and with web hooks you're cordially invited to explore that hypothesis! 🤓

Getting Started

We're hopeful that even if you've never worked with API's before you might still have a tinker with ours. Head to our new developer site for an in-depth rundown of what the API can do and how you can easily get started.

As the developer site will explain, you'll need to generate a Personal Access Token by scanning a QR code from the Up app before you can make API calls. You can generate your token on the API site.

We've also set up a new Github repository for the API. This is the best place to go if you find issues or bugs with the API. Start an issue with us and we'll do our best to help.

Balances and transactions are just the beginning. We're working to put more data and functionality into the API in the near future. But even with what we have today we think you have enough ingredients to bake a pretty tasty pie. Be sure to hit us up on the socials with your delicious creations!

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: API, Open Banking, Development, Innovation, Technology, Exporting from Up

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_apple-watch_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Apple Watch
Back to Blog

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

=== blog_apple_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Apple
Back to Blog

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

=== blog_april-fools_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

April Fools
Back to Blog

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Retro logos are the best logos.

Anthony Langhorne

Apr 01, 2020

=== blog_attempted-charges_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Attempted Charges
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020

=== blog_authentication_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Authentication
Back to Blog

Lock it Up!

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Anson Parker

Aug 09, 2018

=== blog_auto-covers-preview-release_.txt ===

Auto Covers Preview Release

Up High

Background

In October 2019, a year after launching, we held Up’s first in-person meet up to introduce our “Spring Tree” — a major update to our public product roadmap. The new spring growth on the Tree represented a new set of planned features, including a pair of actions named “Covering” and “Forwarding”.

Forwarding would let you transfer a deposit sitting in your Up spending account to one of your Savers, as if it were an email, moving the value of that deposit and the transaction information along with it.

Covering would allow you top up your spending account by transferring in money from a Saver to cover the exact cost of a chosen purchase. This function would make it possible to run all manner of money management systems, from a few simple buckets to a tall stack of envelopes.

Soon after the event we launched those two features, but there was an important related function that didn’t make the release.

Covering a purchase, by long-pressing a transaction and selecting the action, was relatively fast to do, but at the end of the day, still a manual operation. The real power of Covering, we thought, would only be unleashed once the operation was automated. Auto Covers would allow you to set up hands-free rules for when various Savers should cover purchases.

An automated system, needing just a single debit card that can programatically pull money from the right place based on a set of rules was, for us, some sort of holy grail.

Yet here we are, over 3 years later, without Auto Covers in the app. What happened?

Lifting The Covers

There’s that old saying about not letting perfect be the enemy of good. It might well be fair to say we did not heed that advice with Auto Covers.

We believed it was important for the feature to be so fast that you could tap your debit card at a merchant and, if that purchase was to be covered automatically, the money would transfer into your Spending account just before the purchase itself. This would mean, for example, that you could keep little to no money in your spending account, and have money pulled from the appropriate Saver just in time to enable the purchase to go through — this turned out to be a lot harder than we expected!

Over the last couple of years our engineers worked hard, researching and testing a number of strategies to achieve the speed needed for this approach. We got close. Oh so close. But we couldn’t quite get there 100% of the time. We’d get to the point where Auto Covers would work perfectly 9 out of 10 times, but there was still that 1 in 10 failure. When you scale that to 100,000s of customers making millions of transactions, we just didn’t think that would cut it.

Of course, you could argue there might be many occasions when that speed may not matter. For example, if you have enough money in your spending account for the transaction to work, it will be replenished nearly immediately — it becomes a bit academic as to which of those two things happened first. So what if we relaxed our need for speed, and just shipped a version of Auto Covers that requires you first have the balance in your spending account for the transaction to succeed — would that be worth doing?

Well we decided it was time to find out…

Good? Certainly Not Perfect.

Starting today, we’re letting Upsiders who’ve joined our Up High Early Access program test out a preview release of Auto Covers. Does that mean Auto Covers is going to require being an Up High subscriber? No it doesn’t! Auto Covers will be a 100% free feature when it is ready for general release. We’re using Early Access as way to gather feedback and test this “good, not perfect” version of Auto Covers, to understand whether it is, in fact, good enough.

It’s not just the speed issue we’re testing though. An early staff version of Auto Covers only allowed automatic covering based on the category of the transaction. While this worked OK in some cases, it turned out categories were too broad for many potential uses.

In the preview release you can now configure Savers to cover based on either the category or merchant. You can, in a sense, “train” a Saver by manually covering a transaction first and then setting up an Auto Cover for any subsequent purchases at that business.

Do we need to add even more flexibility? Maybe. We could consider using location, time of day, or even currency to add more configurability to Auto Covers. We’re excited to hear from those of you who join Up High Early Access and try the feature.

And of course, we understand not all of you are willing or able to join Up High. We look forward to releasing Auto Covers to you later in the year. Tried. Tested. And totally free.

Start Automating Your Covers

Once you're loaded into the clouds with Up High Early Access you can start adding Automation rules for each of your Savers to follow. Starting early means you can take Up out with confidence knowing your Auto Cover rules are set in stone.

Tap on any Saver and enable Auto Covers to start configuring which Merchants and Spending Categories will be automatically be Covered from this Saver.

You can also use Auto Covers on your 2Up account, but both Players 1 & 2 will need to be members of Up High Early Access.

Covering Your Own Rules

Take control with a little configuration creativity. You can choose specific Spending Categories, Sub Categories or Individual Merchants to be Covered from your selected Saver. You can add combinations of all three to suit however you have your savings structured.

Quickly find specific Merchants from a preselected list of common merchants by tapping on the Merchants option during set up. Mix and match individual Spending Categories by tapping on Categories.

If you didn't nail it the first time — no problemo. You can come back and configure any Auto Cover rules by tapping on your Savers with Auto Covers enabled.

Adding More as You Go

If the Merchant you're looking for is not searchable when setting up Auto Covers from a Saver, you can add a Merchant by performing a manual Cover first by long pressing on the transaction to then be prompted to Automate that Cover for the future.

Deal with it in the moment when a purchase comes up, or take a scroll through transactions past to add to your Auto Cover collection.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Auto Covers

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

UpYear is Here!

Let’s wrap up your 2023. Get your Spending and Saving insights from the other side.

Up

Dec 19, 2023

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_auto-covers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Auto Covers
Back to Blog

Auto Covers Preview Release

For a deep dive into the what, why and how behind Auto Covers, hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker, as he takes us on a journey back through time, before moving forward into the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 06, 2024

=== blog_automated-transfers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Automated Transfers
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

=== blog_avoiding-scams_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Avoiding scams
Back to Blog

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

From the 'Hi Mum' text to shady Marketplace buys, scams are on the rise across Australia. Here’s how – together – we can keep your dollars safe. May the power protect you.

Up

Nov 03, 2022

=== blog_babies_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Babies
Back to Blog

How to Save for a Baby

Truth is, no one ever plans perfectly for a baby. Sometimes we don’t even get the option to try. Here's an Up team member's take on what you can control, and how you can prep your space and your Savers to meet the new arrival.

Anne Shea

Dec 14, 2022

=== blog_balance-notifications_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Balance notifications
Back to Blog

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

=== blog_bills_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Bills
Back to Blog

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

=== blog_biometric-controls_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Biometric Controls
Back to Blog

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

=== blog_bpay_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

BPAY
Back to Blog

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019

=== blog_budgeting_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Budgeting
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

How to Save for a Baby

Truth is, no one ever plans perfectly for a baby. Sometimes we don’t even get the option to try. Here's an Up team member's take on what you can control, and how you can prep your space and your Savers to meet the new arrival.

Anne Shea

Dec 14, 2022

Custom Spending Insights

Noticed a new taste of rainbow in your Up feed? We’ve tuned up Insights so they can turn at your speed. Engineer María Acuña lays out what’s changing.

Maria

Dec 01, 2022

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

=== blog_building-saver-icons_.txt ===

Building Saver Icons

Building Up

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji for your savers. In this post I'll detail some of the technical challenges we had to solve while building it.

For the interface to make sense, we wanted to provide our own selector widget rather than relying on the native keyboards. I found two existing React native libraries that provide one: react-native-emoji-input and emoji-mart-native. Neither provided the look and feel we were after, but I wanted to be able to re-use much of the low-level emoji handling code. emoji-mart-native appeared to have a richer set of features (such as searching by alias), and I had problems linking react-native-emoji-input, so emoji-native-mart was the default winner.

Performance

My initial assumption was that searching would be a performance issue and would need background processing or other special handling. In testing though, a search operation typically only took few milliseconds -- well under the 16ms budget I had for smooth 60fps performance.

Where I had to spend most of my time optimizing performance was in rendering. React Native has a built-in SectionList component that handles smart rendering of long sectioned pieces of content -- such as emojis grouped into category -- which was able to do most of the heavy lifting. The "correct" way to provide data to SectionList is via props, but given we have so many emojis the shallow compare of those props on every state update was taking too long, and was also redundant: the only way the rendered data could change was if the keyword changed! I wrapped the SectionList in a custom component that provided an optimized shouldComponentUpdate to reduce the amount of computation needed.

// A wrapper component for SectionList that
// enables us to optimize shouldComponentUpdate.
// Since we're potentially showing many hundreds
// of items, doing a shallow compare of that list
// can take a while. Instead, we only re-render if
// the keyword changes (since that is the only
// thing that can change the result list.)
class EmojiGrid extends React.Component {
  defaultData = [
    /* some list */
  ];

  shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps) {
    return nextProps.keyword != this.props.keyword;
  }

  render() {
    const sections =
      this.props.keyword.length > 0 ? this.searchResults : this.defaultData;

    return (
      <SectionList
        sections={sections}
        // Other props...
      />
    );
  }

  get searchResults() {
    return [
      // some section list based on
      // this.props.keyword
    ];
  }
}


To show emojis as a grid rather than one per row while still using SectionList, I calculated how many emojis could fit per row then pre-chunked the data.

import chunk from 'lodash/chunk';

 // Fixed width of emoji, given our font size.
const EMOJI_SIZE = 36;

 // Standard spacing
const SPACING = 5;

class EmojiGrid extends React.Component {

  // This was actually provided as a prop from a
  // parent component, but including here for
  // brevity
  get perRow() {
    return Math.floor(
      (Dimensions.get('window').width - SPACING * 2)
      / EMOJI_SIZE
    );
  }

  get searchResults() {
    return [{
      id: 'search',
      title: 'Search Results'
      data: chunk([
        /* some list based on this.props.keyword */
      ], this.perRow)
    }]
  }
}

Sorting

We use loki for visual regression testing, and I was getting failures on our emoji component. Search result ordering was non-deterministic!

// Original implementation from emoji-mart-native
results.sort((a, b) => {
  var aScore = scores[a.id],
    bScore = scores[b.id];

  return aScore - bScore;
});


This code contains a common issue when sorting based on relevance: two items with the same score will both return 0, with no way to distinguish between them, leading to non-determinism. A secondary sort key is required in this case (PR for emoji-mart-native here):

results.sort((a, b) => {
  var aScore = scores[a.id],
    bScore = scores[b.id];

  if (aScore === bScore) {
    // localeCompare is the built-in way to
    // compare strings in JS. We don't actually
    // care about the ordering, as long as it
    // stays the same for any two IDs.
    return a.id.localeCompare(b.id);
  } else {
    return aScore - bScore;
  }
});

Rendering

Depending on the source of the emoji when rendering, it can sometimes include an invisible codepoint VARIATION-SELECTOR-16 which triggers a different rendering mode that changes the line height of the containing text. This was particularly noticeable in our saver review screen: the first row does not contain the codepoint, the second one does, and the second one is 2px taller.

People have found a number of slightly unsatisfactory workarounds for this. In our case it was easy enough to increase the line height to account for the extra emoji height, even when no emojis were present. Tim Whitlock's unicode inspector was most helpful in debugging this issue.

This was my first feature at Up, and also my first React Native feature. It was a lot of fun to build and I hope it's just as fun to use!

Xavier Shay

Engineer

@xshay

Tags: Emojis, Savers, Development, Innovation, Technology

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Emoji saver icons, change your mobile number, grouped transactions, and card controls.

Up

May 08, 2019

The Tree of Up

We're excited to introduce a new kind of product roadmap. We're calling it The Tree of Up – a technology tree-like view of our product plans for 2019.

Anson Parker

Mar 13, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_building-up-an-emergency-fund_.txt ===

Building Up an Emergency Fund

How to Up, Saving, Staying Safe

Hands up if you have an emergency fund?

If yours are firmly down, you’re not alone. Sure, we all figured out before we left Prep that saving money is useful. You can’t buy a Lego Death Star with one week’s pocket money. But when financial gurus bandy about ideas like ‘set aside three months’ pay’, well, that can seem like a really good thing to put off for a few years.

Fam, if you want to feel prepared, but don’t have an actual pile of gold sitting around just yet, we are here to assist. Up is pretty much purpose built for painlessly building an ‘emergency fund’, ‘rainy day fund’ — or ‘f*** off fund’ (we’ll get to that last idea later).

And with Up, it’ll be customised to you. Your income. Your values. The scary stuff you need to deal with.

Here’s our ultimate guide to making your first (or fifth) emergency Saver with Up: how to set a goal that makes sense to you, how to organise your saving, and how to automate your money so the emergency fund pretty much builds itself. Ready? Let’s get this financial fire extinguisher installed.

In this blog:
How an emergency fund is different
Keeping it out of sight, out of mind
Designing a goal for where you’re at now
Saving for just you, or someone else too
Set and forget with Up’s automatic savings tools
And change your fund as you change.

Remember though that any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

How are emergency savings different to regular savings?

Whether you’re reading the Barefoot Investor, listening to She’s On The Money with Victoria Devine, or watching Tash Invests on Tik Tok — pretty much every financial guru we meet loves the idea of a stash of cash kept separate for unexpected hard times.

And though the three month rule is totally a thing, emergency funds come in all shapes and sizes. For example, Tash has Savers set up for times when she needs to study, not work:

Having a full emergency fund allows me to work towards my financial goals while having a safety net and freedom. I have 16 weeks of full time placement coming up at uni and work is going to be way harder to fit in. So I’ve used my Up savers to plan for all my upcoming expenses - including a bit of fun money.
- Tash Invests

Whereas another Upsider took a simpler approach, creating a general stash ‘against the unknown’ that ended up filling a need she didn’t even expect.

The first thing I did when I downloaded the app was create and fill an emergency account. Less than a month later I found out I was at risk of losing my ovaries and being unable to have kids. When they asked how I planned on paying for all the appointments, scans, therapies and surgeries, I felt empowered knowing my rainy-day fund was full!
- Clare

Both approaches (and more!) can work. It depends on how complex you want to get, and whether you’re more interested in saving for a particular goal, a particular worry, or ‘because life might gut punch me someday’. But first...

Start a Saver

Step one, is to open a dedicated Saver. Sounds simple? It is — but it’s also a great way to forget you have $$ till you really need them.

Chuck on an emoji so you’ll never mix up your accounts: you can even decide if you’re more of a rainy day 🌧, umbrella ☔️, or fire truck 🚒 kind of Saver. Drag it all the way down to the bottom of your Savers stack so it’s out of sight and out of mind.

While we’re here, let’s make an effortless start by turning on Round Ups for this Saver. We might boost that later, but we don’t have to! Five bucks beats no bucks. Then we can think about twenty. Twenty bucks could get you home some night, or buy you dinner on a really bad day.

Line Up the Goalposts

Every Up Saver lets you set a specific goal and track how close you are to hitting it.

So, beyond those first few dollars, how much is enough?

Let’s use the tools we have in Up to make some educated guesses.

Up’s Spending Insights give you a snapshot of your spending habits. We’ll even pop your transactions into categories, too. So you could find a goal that feels right by:

Seeing what you spend, as a total amount, over a typical week. Then you could set a goal that’s big enough to cover a week. (When you get there, you can move on to a fortnight, then a month).
Same, but look deeper into just what you spend on just the essentials (say, on Personal, Home, and Transport, but not The Good Life). Then save for only enough to cover that in the same timeframe. You won’t have fun money, but the saving will be quicker and you will get by.
Look back on the last time life really whomped you, and what it cost. When the cat made her last trip to the emergency vet, what was the financial damage? Would having the same amount stashed away help you worry about her less?
Create custom tags to tally up exactly what you spend on the things you’d truly be in trouble without.

If you haven’t been using Up for long enough to have many Insights yet, no stress: why not just set a simple, first goal you can afford, and throw in a buck with Pull To Save every time you’re waiting in life for a coffee? (and remember — you can come back and adjust it later.)

Up is empowering you to make better budgeting decisions and visibility about your spending habits. It’s visual and has literally changed my life. I’ve gone from being thousands of dollars in debt to steadily saving and wondering why other banks haven’t done this sooner.
- Thismisskate
Saving with a partner, or saving alone?

Lots of Upsiders save with a partner, and if you’re sharing your financial lives, saving together for things that could affect you together could make sense. You could each make matching 💕emergency Savers (aw, look at you) and each put in a percentage of your salary with Splits — or a fixed amount with Auto Transfers.

That said — there’s also a kind of Saver you make totally on your own that’s often referred to as a "f*ck off fund." Having a stash of savings that is just yours — say, enough to leave a relationship that looked a lot better from the outside — might also be something you want to consider.

None of us want to think about the worst case scenario, especially when things are shiny and new. But life together might not always be so rosy. (And there’s no reason that your fund can’t be used to bail you out from a toxic boss or housing situation. It’s more about your personal security than a commentary on the love dynamic, ya know?)

If you prefer to keep it on the DL, you can label your personal Saver with a fun emoji and say you’re saving for... a someday puppy. Or whatever makes sense to you. Emergency puppies are a thing, right?

Save in Your Sleep
The Round Up feature has been an absolute life saver and a great tool for whenever I purchase something… after all no matter how big or small the round up is, Up always pushes me to save and make me a little stress free every time I purchase
- Daniel

Now we have a (first) ballpark in mind, let’s put some digital magic into the phrase ‘from little things, big things grow’.

With Automatic Transfers. you can push full dollar amounts into your Saver. Say you get paid the same amount every fortnight or month. You can tell Up to move some of those dollars from your spending to your emergency fund as soon as your pay hits.

If your pay is a bit less predictable, some Pay Splits might be more your style. Once you tell Up that the payments from Roxie’s House of Rollerskates are your pay, you can set splits down to the last 1% for how you’d like it divvied up amongst your Savers. Maybe you could start with just 1% into that Emergency Fund?

And Round Ups might help you get there faster, too. Let’s say you buy a coffee for $3.50. With Round Ups turned on, that extra 50 cents will be automatically added to a Saver of your choice. When that’s started to feel comfortable, you can also Boost it, rounding up a dollar or more to save faster.

And of course, you can roll all of this up or down as life changes.

Roll with the Punches

Someday, and that day may never come, your fund might be called to do a service for you. It will be vet time. Or the car will just finally give up.

You might be totally drained — and you might not even have enough saved yet to completely cover the expense. But that’s life, and life is gloriously, terribly unpredictable. We like to think of it this way: if you have twenty bucks, you’re twenty bucks ahead of where you might have been otherwise. And for that, saving is worth it.

Change, Grow, Repeat

The key to growing any kind of savings is to just start wherever you’re at. Chuck in a few dollars each week and you’re on the right track. You can use Up to grow it, nurture it, and set new goals as your Saver gets stronger.

We so hope you never need an emergency fund. We hope you end up spending your savings on a giant piñata for your 99th birthday. But if you do need it, it would also give us huge pleasure to know that Up helped you out of a problem, one Round Up at a time.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Emergency Fund, Budgeting, Savings Goals, Emergency Savings, Round Ups, Spending Insights, Pay Splitting

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_building-up_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Building Up

Get it right from the source. Read write ups from the designers, developers and deliverers working directly on Up.

Back to Blog

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Retro logos are the best logos.

Anthony Langhorne

Apr 01, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_building-up_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Building Up

Get it right from the source. Read write ups from the designers, developers and deliverers working directly on Up.

Back to Blog

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

We’re excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

Anson Parker

Jun 12, 2019

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019

The Tree of Up

We're excited to introduce a new kind of product roadmap. We're calling it The Tree of Up – a technology tree-like view of our product plans for 2019.

Anson Parker

Mar 13, 2019

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_building-up_pages_3_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Building Up

Get it right from the source. Read write ups from the designers, developers and deliverers working directly on Up.

Back to Blog

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018

Rebooting Banking

Our journey began with a simple question: what could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

Anson Parker

Oct 31, 2018

Up-cycling core banking

Up is treading a different path to most other digital banks in that it’s being developed through a collaboration between a software company (us) and a so-called “traditional bank” (Bendigo Bank).

Anson Parker

Aug 15, 2018

Lock it Up!

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Anson Parker

Aug 09, 2018

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018

=== blog_card-controls_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Card Controls
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

=== blog_cards_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Cards
Back to Blog

2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here.

Up

May 15, 2023

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

=== blog_cash-envelopes_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Cash Envelopes
Back to Blog

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

=== blog_continuous-delivery-at-up_.txt ===

Continuous delivery at Up

Building Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

If it hurts, do it more often — Martin Fowler

Continuous Delivery, defined as building software in such a way that the software can be released to production at any time, can only be achieved when waste has been removed from every aspect of software delivery. A continuous process of creating and deploying change, feeling the pain, removing some pain, and repeating. For some organisations, this is a journey that can take years. For us, we knew we had to bake it in to the way we build Up from day one. We wanted to get to market first with the next generation of banking functionality, and we did, but we also know we need to keep that lead while the next wave of digital bank hopefuls and their huge venture capital backed teams start chasing us in the years to come.

Our approach to Continuous Delivery can be broken down into the following categories:

Two-speed architecture
Automated Testing
Configuration Management
Continuous Integration
Information Security
Sustainable Culture
Settle in, grab a beverage, and I’ll tell you a bit about how we tackle challenges in each of these categories.
Two-speed architecture

Up is a collaboration between Bendigo Bank and Ferocia. Bendigo Bank, the most trusted bank in Australia, has the banking part covered and builds out an API Gateway of banking services (think ‘create account’, ‘get transactions’, ‘make payment’). Ferocia builds out a cloud-based platform on top of those fundamental banking services to provide the features that you wonder why other banks don’t have (think ‘merchant identification’, ‘upcoming payments’, ‘time of day on transactions’).

This architecture lets us move fast on the customer-facing side, and deliberately on the banking side. We can deploy change several times a day without going anywhere near the regulated banking products that underpin our platform, and where your money is actually stored.

Automated Testing

Testing is probably the most visible blocker to deploying change in most organisations. Developers write some code, deploy it to a test environment, and then some testers test it. If they find something wrong, they tell the developers, the developers fix it, and some testers test it. All this time, nothing is changing in production, and no value is being delivered to customers. Add in some complications, like “the test team is shared between several development teams and their time needs to be scheduled”, or “the test environment is shared by many development teams and its time needs to be scheduled”, and dreams of a lean process can go downhill fast.

Our automated test status lights, affectionately known as “Pipelite”.

In Up, nearly all testing is automated. We don’t have a ‘test team’, we have a tester. The job of our developers is to make her life as easy as possible. Our developers all share the responsibility of automating the tests for the code they write. We use tools such as RSpec and Appium to build massive automated test suites that run on every code change that a developer makes. We spin up a replica of our production infrastructure in seconds using Kubernetes, Terraform, and Google Cloud Platform to allow massive parallelisation of our test runs. After around 20 minutes, and thousands of test cases executed, we tear the environment down again.

Do we get it perfect? Probably not. But our ability to fix issues in production within minutes, coupled with the low risk provided by our two-speed architecture means that we don’t have to get it perfect. That being said, by the time any line of code gets to production, it has been collaborated on by at least three developers (an author, a reviewer, and a deployer), and potentially our lead designer (Dan), our product manager (Anson), and our tester (Samii).

Configuration Management

Hand-crafted physical environments are hard. Hard to maintain, hard to share, and hard to build. From the start we knew we had to be on the cloud, and after an assessment of our options we went with Google Cloud Platform.

Every single detail of our dev/test/production infrastructure is codified. We define immutable containers, and then orchestrate them using Kubernetes. We define infrastructure with Terraform. We built custom tools to take these immutable containers through the deployment pipeline and subject them to top secret security controls.

Having infrastructure as code allows us to replicate a production-like environment on-demand, or deploy our infrastructure to multiple geographical regions at the click of a button. This currently takes just under 2 minutes. We never experience shared environment contention, and every change ever made is securely stored in our source control history. If we introduce an issue, we know exactly what changed and when, and it is simple to rollback.

Continuous Integration

Everytime a developer pushes some code, our CI system kicks into action. Our automated test suite gets split up and executed; some tests can run anywhere, but our iOS test suite runs on a fleet of physical Mac Minis. Production-like environments are spun up in Google Cloud Platform. All of this is orchestrated by Buildkite.

A small number of our Mac Minis that run our device tests.

When a test suite passes or fails, our developers are informed via Slack. If someone pushes some code that doesn’t pass all of the automated tests, then it is unable to be merged with the main application code until the issue is remediated.

As of today, this process has happened 23,361 times in Up’s history!

Information Security

Information Security underpins everything we do at Up. We have processes and controls far in excess of what I have come across previously in my decade of working in the Banking industry. That being said… I am not going to talk about this, sorry.

Sustainable Culture

Everything we do is underpinned by a culture of trust (apart from Information Security). We don’t have a leave policy, for example, we don’t even have a ‘you must come to the office every day’ policy. If someone is sick, we’d never ask for a medical certificate. Honestly, what is that saying about trust levels if you do?

We trust our people to do what needs to be done, and give them the resources and tools they need to do it. Whether that is the best laptops on the market. Books. Local and international conferences. A trainer running sessions at our amazingly equipped gym. Nutritious lunches that cater to all persuasions. Showers and bike sheds. Epic team celebrations, and the usual “hey it’s Friday” celebrations.

It might be this point that large organisations find the hardest to replicate. We’ve been dedicated for a long time to keeping our team small. Growing is easy. Growing without damaging your culture, not so much.

Conclusion

We could fill a book going into all of the details of the stuff I have brushed on here. If you found the stuff you just read interesting, give some claps below or a share on social media. If people are interested we’ll go into deeper detail about how we do our tech around here in future blog posts.

If you haven’t given us a go yet, head over to up.com.au. Sign up is quick and painless, and you can get an Apple Pay card into your digital wallet within minutes. At the moment, we are only able to provide super powered banking to Australian residents. Thanks for reading!

Chris Aitchison

Engineering Manager

@cmaitchison

Tags: Technology, Continuous Delivery, Development, Culture

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018

Rebooting Banking

Our journey began with a simple question: what could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

Anson Parker

Oct 31, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_continuous-delivery_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Continuous Delivery
Back to Blog

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018

=== blog_covers-and-forwards_.txt ===

New release: Covers & Forwards

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting, Saving

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

These two actions give you quick and flexible ways to move money back and forth between your main Up balance and your Savers.

Forwarding enables you to send deposits and payments (any "credit" to use the banking parlance) over to a Saver. With just two taps, you can forward a transaction much like you'd forward an email. The money and a copy of the transaction now appear in your chosen Saver – it's basically an account transfer on steroids.

Covering allows you to use money in a Saver to cover the cost of a purchase. With a couple of taps from your Activity feed, you can top up your Up account by the amount of the purchase, from your chosen Saver. A copy of that transaction will appear in that Saver, making it an excellent way to manage budgeting.

To start a forward or cover simply long press (tap and hold down) any transaction. A deposit or incoming payment will trigger a forward while any purchase will begin a cover.

Covering and forwarding are versatile tools that can support all sorts of approaches. To get you started, here are a few ideas for how they can be used:

Forwarding
Collecting money for a gift

You're collecting money from your friends to buy a gift for someone special. Create a "Gift" Saver and forward each of the contributions to it. Once you buy the gift you can then cover the purchase from that same Saver.

Other ideas
IOUs: Your friend forgot their wallet so you ended up paying for their lunch. But that money come out of your personal "Work Lunch" budget, so when they send you the money back you can quickly forward it back to the Saver and restore your balance.
Cash gifts: Quickly forward on that birthday money you received to your holiday Saver before you're tempted to spend it!
Transfers from other banks: Did you move some money into Up from another bank? Quickly shuffle it over to a Saver with forwards – no need to remember the amount or leave the Activity screen.
Covering
Weekly budgets

Set up a Saver with a weekly transfer in to cover your coffee & bagel habit. Any time you indulge, simply cover those purchases from your Saver. Saver starting to run low? Could be time to ease off! This can work for any purpose or category. You might even combine this idea with Up's pay splitting feature to implement one of the many "bucketed" budgeting programs out there.

Tracking project expenses

Have you hit that Saver goal for a project? Could be a holiday, wedding, party or maybe even a renovation project. As you move into spending mode on that project, you can simply use your Up card and then cover those purchases to track your spending and keep copies of all relevant purchases in a single place. Manual transfers are a thing of the past!

Maximising interest

With covers it's now much easier to keep the majority of your money in high-interest Savers and simply cover purchases as they happen to restore a minimal amount in your main Up account. This will admittedly get a lot easier with some of the future work we're doing on covers...

The Future

As shown on the tree, the next step for Covers and Forwards are auto-covers. You will be able to define rules to have Up automatically cover purchases based on the category, merchant or even location you're in. Or simply set a rule to automatically cover every single purchase. Hands-free banking is on its way!

The main thing to keep in mind with covers is that you must first have enough money in your main Up account for the purchase to succeed. The cover will happen after the purchase is made. Over time we plan to solve this so our system can potentially approve purchases even when you don't have the money directly in your main Up account. Combined with auto-covers, Up will then provide an incredibly powerful but surprisingly simple way to fully automate all manner of budgeting systems. No multiple cards. No manual transfers.

The future of money management is looking Up!

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Covers, Forwards, Transfers, Pay Splitting, Budgeting

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_covers-forwards_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Covers & Forwards
Back to Blog

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

=== blog_covers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Covers
Back to Blog

Auto Covers Preview Release

For a deep dive into the what, why and how behind Auto Covers, hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker, as he takes us on a journey back through time, before moving forward into the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 06, 2024

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

=== blog_csv-custom-savings-viewer_.txt ===

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting

A commonly requested feature from Upsiders is getting their data out of Up, so that they can use it in budgeting software, or in Excel, or some other means to view their data on not-a-phone.

So, we've added the ability to export to a CSV, which you can then share from your phone to your computer (or, if you're brave, work with it directly on your phone 😬).

CSV is short for 'Comma-separated values' (not Custom Savings Viewer - but that's what you can build with it), and lets us output your data in a format that can be read by many other programs.

To export, head to your Activity feed > tap ‘Insights’ above the monthly header (i.e. December 2023) > scroll to the bottom and tap ‘Export transactions’.

Before exporting, just check which period you have selected first. You can do this by tapping the “Switch” button in the top right hand corner.

If you just want to jump in and see what you can do with this data, we've created a small Google Sheet which you can use as a starting point.

Go to the link here and click 'File → Make a copy'.
Download your CSV for any month, and get it onto your computer however you like.
Open it with a text editor (Notepad if you're on Windows, TextEdit if you're on macOS). Select all, copy.
Go to the sheet you've copied, right-click in A1 (the top-left cell), and hit paste.
You'll get a lot of data on your screen. At the bottom, near A1, you'll get a little clipboard icon. Click that, then click 'Split to Columns'.
Now, you can look through the other sheets at the bottom of the page to see some cool graphs. Here's my "$ per Category" graph - I'm pretty slack about adding categories to things like rent and bills, so it doesn't include any of that 💸.

Hopefully these give you a bit of inspiration. From here, you can add whatever you like. If you make something cool, be sure to show us on Twitter (you'll almost certainly get a retweet from Dom) or through Talk to Us.

If you want to try your hand at building your own integration, either in Excel or your favourite programming language, continue on below, where I've detailed each of the columns that you'll find in the export.

Let's go over what's included:

Time: this is the date + time that your transaction happened at

BSB/Account Number: The details of the account this transaction was made from

for now, it's always going to be your Spending account.

Transaction Type: the method of money movement - we're always updating, so don't rely on this list never changing.

Purchase: this one is pretty self-explanatory - you've made a purchase
Payment: You've sent money to someone
Deposit: Someone has sent you money
Direct Debit: ...it's a direct debit
Direct Credit: Another way to have money deposited into your account
BPAY Payment: You've made a payment via BPAY
ATM Cash Out: Withdrawing from an ATM
ATM Operator Fee: Money paid to use an independent ATM
Overdrawn Interest: Interest charged if you ever go overdrawn.
Round Up: An 'orphaned' round-up. This happens only very occasionally when a company places a 'Hold' on your card, and then later withdraws the hold.
Salary: A payment into your account from your employer
Scheduled Transfer: Keep an eye out for a future blog about this one 😉.
Transfer: A transfer between your accounts

Payee: The person or account who you have sent money to or received money from.

Description: Essentially a free-text field. Shows the raw merchant details if it's a purchase, the message you've sent if it's a transfer, etc.

Category: The category of the transaction inside of Up.

Tags: A comma-separated list of tags applied to a transaction. Yup. There is a CSV inside the CSV.

Subtotal: The amount charged, in AUD (regardless of purchase currency), before any fees or round-ups are applied.

Currency: The ISO 4217 currency code for the currency the transaction was made in. E.g. AUD, USD.

Subtotal (Transaction Currency): The amount charged, in the transaction currency. You can combine this with Subtotal to calculate the exchange rate.

Fee (AUD): The fee, if applicable, on the transaction. Hint: it's very often $0.

Round Up (AUD): The amount moved to your round up saver due to the given transaction

Total (AUD): Subtotal + Fee (AUD) + Round Up (AUD). This is the total effect the transaction had on your account balance

Payment Method: The method used to move money around. This is generally only for payments you've sent/other people have sent you. You might see:

Osko
BPAY
Direct Entry - payments that don't use Osko will be Direct Entry

Settled Date: This is when the transaction actually settled.

If you feel like we've missed something that you really need, feel free to jump on 'Talk to Us' in-app and let us know 💡.

David Buchan-Swanson

Engineer

@deecewan

Tags: CSV, Insights, Exporting from Up

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_csv_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

CSV
Back to Blog

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019

=== blog_culture_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Culture
Back to Blog

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018

=== blog_currency_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Currency
Back to Blog

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

=== blog_custom-spending-insights_.txt ===

Custom Spending Insights

Updates, How to Up

Insights have always been a massive part of Up.

We want to help you understand what your money’s up to (and we want to understand ours too!) So from the get go, we’ve packaged Up with heaps of Insights.

So far they’ve worked on a simple monthly basis, but that might not be how your money works. Maybe you get paid weekly, or every fortnight. Maybe your pay cycle starts on a Wednesday afternoon and you’d like to spend and track to that rhythm.

Oooo, or maybe you’d like to export everything you tagged with “tax return” in the last financial year.

We got you!

Here’s what’s new in this release.

Custom Date Ranges

Insights are now custom-timed to you. That means you can see your spending and saving for the range you need, be it weekly, pay day, monthly, yearly, by financial year or over a range you select. Swipe left and right to navigate smoothly between timeframes and compare your spending.

You can always tap on the monthly header to see your monthly insights. For those that love them, they’re still where they always were 💌

Tracker Timeframes

You can now choose the timeframe for your Trackers. Track your spending weekly, monthly or even between your Pay Days 🎉 Easily edit your Tracker amounts directly from Spending Insights so you can fine tune your budget in a pinch.

We’ll keep sending you progress updates letting you know how you’re doing, and hit your phone with wrap up notifications as you transfer between Tracker periods.

Power Tags and CSV Goodness

All this custom love means that you can see tags and run exports based on your custom timeframe, too. Want to see what last year’s reno work cost, or pull down three months of expenses? We got you.

Summary Updates

We simplified, removing the weekly summary (the screen with the bar graph you could only see from that notification you get on Monday morning).

We’ll keep sending the notification but it’ll now take you to your insights for the past week.

Be Everywhere All At Once All the Time with More Location Data

We used to show you the top 5 locations where you’d made at least 3 purchases.

Now we show you ALL of them. Tap ‘Show all’ and we’ll reveal everything.

Sounds good, What’s Next?

These upgrades aren’t the end of our planned improvements. Actually this work lets us build what’s coming next, including the ability to customise your insight notifications, and make some handy new notification types.

We hope you love this new rainbow of data just as much as we do. If you’re curious about where Up is heading next, check out the Tree of Up – and we love getting your app suggestions via Talk to Us in-app!

Maria

Engineer

Tags: Insights, Budgeting

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

From the 'Hi Mum' text to shady Marketplace buys, scams are on the rise across Australia. Here’s how – together – we can keep your dollars safe. May the power protect you.

Up

Nov 03, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_deliver-bank-card-melt-faces_.txt ===

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Building Up

Here at Up, we strive to create experiences that change your perception of what a bank should look like and how it should act. In a world where instant digital satisfaction and gratification is rife, we want the scarce physical interactions people have with Up to be potent. How could we crank up the heat on our current welcome pack and melt some faces?

The Welcome Pack Card Holder

When you think about how a new debit card is traditionally delivered by a bank, it doesn’t usually create a lasting impression. Typically it's a boring piece of white A4 paper delivered in your standard mail envelope. The card you've been eagerly waiting for is stuck to the paper with a thin (sometimes not so thin) stream of hot glue. All up, it's a very forgettable experience and you're left with another disposable piece of landfill.

Since we launched we’ve put a lot of effort into making the “unboxing” experience of our mailers memorable, but we wanted to kick it up a notch and use the next iteration as a chance to emphasize our brand values of sustainability, financial literacy and fun…and make something that would bring endless joy to our customers eyeballs..

Making something this complex is a non-trivial piece of work, lucky for us, our printing partners Taylor’d Press are always up for a challenge. Many discussions with James (Founder, Taylor’d Press) started with some awkwardly long silences and anxious giggling but always ended with; “Pete, we can do it, we just need to figure out how”. Many design iterations followed and we were able to land on a design that could actually be printed and might just melt some faces.

Improving sustainability

Thanks to our continued growth, we’ve seen the volume of Welcome Packs we produce steadily increase, it’s important now more than ever that they’re produced as sustainably as possible. To make this happen, we incorporated the simple and timeless message of ‘Reduce, Reuse & Recycle’ into our design process.

Reduce

One advantage of being a ‘digital’ bank is that we have an extremely light physical footprint compared to legacy banks - we have no branch network with heating and cooling requirements and very little physical paperwork. It is part of our DNA to try and use less’. A major update between iterations is the reduced the size of the pack from a traditional DL mailer to a custom A5 package. This one change has meant that we’ve been able to reduce the amount of paper we’ve used by 27% - stoked!

Reuse

Rather than creating a single-use and discardable item, we decided to bake in a design concept that would give people a fresh way to interact with their money while also having a positive impact on their finances - we decided to turn the back of the mailer into a 52 week savings challenge. The ultimate one player Savings game where you are the winner every time!

While the 52 week savings challenge is not a new concept, it’s a classic for a reason. We’d seen lots of people making their own version to track savings, so we thought we’d give it the Up treatment to make it useful and easy on the eyes. The unexpected simplicity is what we really dig about the Save Up Card, and who couldn't do with an extra $1,000!? The idea for the ’Save Up Card’ was born.

The design had to be fun and engaging, otherwise it would seem just like another onerous spreadsheet or tracking tool. Like the love and attention we spend inside the Up app, if we can make saving look and feel fun we can encourage better financial habits and help our customers get what they want in life.

To use the Save Up Card, Upsiders simply stick it on their fridge or somewhere else handy (using the stickers from the sticker sheet included in the welcome pack) and start marking off amounts each week they’ve saved into their Up Savers which earn great interest. We’ve also given Upsiders a few weeks off for good behaviour (or indulgences).

The analog irony of this card is not lost on us!
Recycle

Both the mailer and the envelopes we send them in are made from recyclable paper stock, so once you’ve saved $1,000 you can also save some trees by disposing responsibly. We have a strong desire to keep improving though and are currently working on ways to improve in future iterations.

Customer Co-lab

We love hearing from our customers about ideas they have to improve Up, it's a huge part of our decision making and roadmap. When a customer reached out with a request to have a slightly smaller Up logo sticker to fit their life better, we listened…

Debit Card

It is safe to say, that to-date, the response to Up debit cards has been super positive and are a real talking point. We’ve heard reports of random strangers bonding at a bar when they’ve noticed their Up cards whip over the counter. A real match maker.

From a design perspective, it’s really nice to get ongoing, positive feedback on your work - especially when you take a risk and try to shake things up a bit. We love hearing your stories about how your Up cards are a real conversation starter wherever you go.

All the positive feedback has driven us to push even harder for this iteration. How could we make a nice card nicer?…or a bright card brighter?! Essentially, how could we create more a card with more face melt?

The colour of our debit card is informed by our vibrant brand colours - given we are a digital product, our colours are optimised for screen, not print. Our brand is designed to be served animated and electric. Translating this digital vibrancy into the static world of plastics, Pantone and chips is definitely a challenge.

Card Core

We’ve always been relatively happy with how the front of our cards looked, but we weren’t happy with how the card looked in profile - in your wallet or purse - we wanted more pop! It might seem like a minor detail - but this is the kind of thing we really nerd out over. We felt the core was letting us down when compared to the front of the cards, so we got our magnifying glass out and went to our card manufacturer Placard with our challenge.

An Up Debit Card in Wallet, showing fluro core

As it turns out, there are many layers that go into making a debit card - antennas and laminates can muddy the water. Unlike when specifying an ink colour using a Pantone colour, the plastics that make up the core of a card are not standard screen or print colours and so, with no formal way to reference desired brand colours, we armed ourselves with technical terms like ‘fluro’ and ‘face melt’, and asked Placard to find something that fitted this description!

Card Back

For our first card, a lot of our focus had been on the design of the face of the card and striping it of personal details along with moving to a portrait orientation - this was a first in 2018 and has since become the norm for neo banks.

Now it was time to tidy up the rear 🍑

The Midnight Blue back was originally chosen to match the app, but given the success of the front colour (sunset red), sunrise yellow seemed truer to the Up vibe. Plus for some it’s easier to read - win win. When we received the sunrise/sunset combination samples, we all agreed the combination felt more Up/lively and less banky.

In our ongoing push to strip off unnecessary clutter and leave behind legacy banking formalities, we removed the signature panel and replaced it with an illustration of the Up Tech Lord - our cloud based spirit, chanting our internal mantra of ‘Up Yeah’. We probably need another post explaining the range of curious illustrations and designs you’ll find throughout the Up app - coming soon...

We’re super stoked with the latest iteration of our cards, envelopes and mailers and proud that we’ve been able to make them more sustainable while also more excellent.

The best bit is that our customers love them - from the moment they started hitting people’s inboxes, they’ve been shared on social media. Unexpectedly, we had to do a separate print run of the Save Up card because more than 800 customers reached out to us to see if they could get one. You can download yours here in black and white or colour. If you’re a customer who’d like one mailed out, hit us up in the app using Talk To Us and we’ll hook you up.

There is still some gas left in this tank - we are not done yet. Keep an eye out for the next iteration coming soon.

The best thing is that we’re not even sure how long this iteration will be around for. We’re already working on the next one 😉

Pete Johnson

Creative Director

@_.cip._

Tags: Welcome Pack, Design, Sustainability, Recycling

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_design_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Design
Back to Blog

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019

=== blog_designing-a-super-powered-welcome-pack-experience_.txt ===

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

Building Up

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We knew we had to think outside the square but inside a budget to delight our new Upsiders. A common mantra across the new wave of 'neo' banks is to break free from the conservative mindset that has allowed banking to grow stale. The standard card delivery experience from existing banks is strong evidence for this mindset.

With all the new 'Pays' from Apple, Google and others, it's easy to think of the humble bank card in your wallet as a dying relic that must certainly be on the way out, however this underestimates the importance of backwards compatibility in banking. There are situations where you still need to tap, swipe or insert a card and, although virtual cards are the future, plastic is still king. We relished the opportunity to design our debit card and welcome pack from scratch, and to demonstrate that our forward thinking isn't exclusive to digital experiences.

Joining Up

One of the first features we built for our app was the sign-up flow. We were very clear on our goal from the kick-off meeting:

"Allow users to download, install the app, and have a bank account in under 5 minutes."

The most substantial part of this was always going to be identity verification, but over several iterations, we were able to blitz our original goal and create a sign up journey that takes, on average, under 3 minutes (2 minutes and 11 seconds to be exact). The cherry on top was that we were able to instantly provision Apple Pay for iOS users on completion of the flow, giving our new customers everything they needed to start banking with Up in minutes. Once they'd finished signing up, we then let customers know that their welcome pack was on its way.

Consistency across digital and physical mediums

So far this was in our wheelhouse; a software solution packaged neatly inside a mobile app. But from our new customer's perspective, they were just about to have their first tangible Up banking moment: the arrival of their debit card. As keen enthusiasts in the FinTech space, we were aware of what others had done prior (See Simple Monzo Square Cash. We were eager to push things even further.

The Status Quo

Early in the process, we visited our card production facility which specialises in pretty much any PVC card that's in your wallet (bank cards, driver licenses, vouchers etc.). We were given a tour of two factories adjacent to each other—one that produces "blanks" in huge runs for storage, and another that customises the blanks (with customer details) and mails them out in smaller batches daily. We asked lots of questions about each step in the process and also the costs of trying things off the beaten path. It became apparent that everything was optimised and streamlined to produce the most cost-efficient result, which looks something like this:

The status quo for delivering a bank card

A bank card glued to an A4 sheet of paper folded twice, with the customer's details positioned for the window of a plain white envelope. Often the card would have an ugly sticker with activation instructions. The same letter template is used for the PIN that is mailed a day or two later to the same address. We knew we could come up with slicker solutions within our app for card activation and setting the PIN, but even with these things aside, we never really entertained the idea of following the standard experience.

Our Vision (The Sharing Strategy)

We knew whatever we wanted to do that it would be different and therefore come at a higher cost. A large part of justifying the expense was convincing everyone involved that the spend was worth the benefit. What we'd seen with digital banks overseas was that in this social media age, people love sharing great design. This is a very underrated marketing tactic that scales incredibly and has social proof baked in. This became one of our core objectives:

make something people would love to show others.

Discussing package design and presenting our vision

When we initially presented our ideas, there was some resistance. Some were certainly concerned about any increase in cost. "Wouldn't new customers prefer those extra few bucks in their account?" While this isn't a bad point, we always believed that making a good impression early sends a great message around our attention to detail. The black foiled box your new customised Nikes arrive in. The intricate wrapping and presentation of an Apple product. Why shouldn't your very first physical experience with a new digital bank be in the same conversation? This was definitely a contrarian approach to adopt in an industry that has demonstrated it's all about driving the cost down at every opportunity.

An Up Card. Literally.
The 'Big Four' and their card line up

Without trying to throw shade, exploring the bank cards landscape left us with an after-taste of convolution and weak branding. We love simplicity and are firm believers in Dieter Rams' "as little design as possible" ethos. Our creativity was flexed mostly through the form factor of the card, and the things we were able to remove and reduce. One of the earliest directions we steered towards came from our branding designer Hannah, who stumbled across the idea of doing something portrait-oriented. We liked that it was a more natural way of holding the card, especially when using contactless payment, and it was consistent with our name back then; Alt - short for 'alternative'. Serendipitously the connection became even stronger when we became 'Up'.

Early design exploration by Hannah

This was around August 2017, and we were determined to find out if anyone had pulled off a vertical card while adhering to the exacting Mastercard® Design Standards. We found two examples back then (a General Motors Customer Card, and a Penfed Credit Union Card) that had vertical artwork on the front of the card, but resorted to a landscape layout on the back.

We wanted the entire card to be truly vertical. Part of this ambition was to abandon the embossed numbers on the front (PAN, expiry and cardholder name) as the punch-machine wouldn't rotate that way. An implication of this was dropping support for those old flatbed imprinters, but there was a significant benefit of moving sensitive information to the back of the card, making it much more shareable. Other notable design decisions included ditching unused tracks on the magnetic strip (making it thinner) and getting our supplier to use the smaller nano-SIMs for the first time.

Rearranging the layout and moving sensitive information to the back of the card

It's worth noting that it took several versions to achieve a lot of these changes. We would wait for approval or rejection from Mastercard each time we submitted new artwork, iterating towards our end vision. "This time we get the SIM!" "Next run we'll get the core colour." We could tell by the lengthy response times that no one else was pushing the rules like this. Almost a year later we've seen dozens of bank cards around the world move in this direction so we must've started a trend.

"Card design iteration executed like software iteration" - @levibuzolic
Pushing the Envelope

We spent many hours foraging on Pinterest for various examples of print and packaging design, which turned up everything from architecture pamphlets to bottle labels for poached pears. We were excited by the range we had to play with regarding textures, stocks and finish. For the carrier, we decided to go with something letter-pressed pretty early in the process. We loved the way it felt in hand.

We also had some smaller objectives we wanted to hit. How could we introduce and emphasise the card's vertical orientation? How could we keep the debit card in place without glue? It seemed that 'til this point, we had challenged nearly every standard. However, in the end, we decided to go with a DL (Dimension Lengthwise; the most common size for letters and flyers) sized carrier. If we wanted the customer to pull the carrier out vertically, we'd have to make our own 'pocket' (flap on the short side) envelopes instead of using the more readily available 'wallet' (flap on the long side) envelopes. We worked with the lovely crew at Paperpoint to build and print envelopes from scratch with beautiful 80gsm Buffalo Kraft paper.

Losing the Glue

Something that irked us about nearly every bank card we had ever received was the way it was fixed in place, with a ball of glue. It felt a bit gross, sometimes ripped the paper, left a residue on the card, and just seemed inelegant. Recently I'd seen a Virgin Velocity Frequent Flyer pack that made use of tidy die-cuts into the cardboard. We knew we could achieve something affordable and functional, sans glue.

We have a long-running relationship with James and Kirsten from Taylor'd Press (6 years and counting) and sought them out to learn all the constraints in regards to letterpressing and duplexing (sticking card together to make thick stock). Armed with their industry experience and advice, I pulled out an X-acto knife and began prototyping some DL carriers.

Cutting, chiselling, taping, gluing and folding all the prototypes

Cutting a perfect debit card shape out of the carrier meant the card would sit flush, but would also be difficult to retrieve. We knew that people would bend the entire carrier to get their card out. Andi, another Up designer and resident woodworking hobbyist, suggested we chamfer the top layer to offset a little lip, allowing a small ramp to slide the card. We added some 'half-moons' to the sides, and it worked perfectly. In the end, we devised a carrier that was made of 3 layers of beer coaster stock. It was thick enough to feel tactile and soft enough to take a decent impression from a Heidelberg letterpress machine.

Revealing the activate card instructions

The carrier design only had one minor flaw— sometimes it would crease across the middle once in transit (perhaps weakened by pressure from the rollers or sorting machines). We noticed this in a few tweets and eventually saw it ourselves, so we fed this information back to James, and he was able to rotate the stock so that the grain would run vertically instead of horizontally, strengthening the carriers. One of many tweaks throughout the journey.

Once the design had been settled, James had a big headache on his hands; he had to work out a pragmatic way to print, glue, cut and assemble these carriers at scale. He's since had several runs to nail the process, and it's now safe to say he no longer screens my calls when we need to re-order.

The Heidelberg Windmills in action
Our Economies of Scale

The budget we gave ourselves was around 60% over the cost of the traditional stock 'trifold' experience mentioned earlier. It's easy to assume that reducing costs is all about reducing quality or running larger quantities. We found the greatest savings were made by working more closely with our suppliers to identify the big inefficiencies in the process; areas where we could trim the fat without compromising on the end result. Printing on the envelopes before they were cut and glued to prevent double handling, or increasing the amount of carriers that were glued together before cutting them down to reduce assembly time. These were a couple of the solutions that reduced costs significantly. After a few big runs we were dialling things in so well that we created enough room in the budget to include an Up sticker sheet.

Over the year and about 5 print runs (each run at least double the previous in quantity), we were able to get the cost down to within 7% of the standard traditional banking pack. All while including more for our customers, and without compromising on the design, function or print quality. Keeping the costs lean isn't the most appealing part of print and package design, but the creativity here from us and our printers is what allowed this entire endeavour to be sustainable.

Loading up the Heidelberg rollers with some Pantone 803

As Dom mentioned in our last post, since we started working with Pete and his crew at CIP Studio, our brand and messaging have been elevated to another level. The latest treatment of the welcome pack really conveys the playfulness of the brand and has been a massive hit with customers.

The full contents of the welcome pack (showing both sides of the carrier)
The Reception

There's no denying that Up will always predominantly be a digital banking experience. We refer to Up as tech-led banking, not banking-led tech. It's what allows us to adapt to new challenges as quickly as they arise. While print projects are much less forgiving when it comes to oversights, and burn at a slower pace (often months between concept and end-product) the feeling of holding something in your hand instead of looking at it on a screen has its own unique rewards.

#upyeah

As tweets and 'grams continue to come in, we are so excited that people are receptive to our passion and taste. With our user base growing every day, and with each iteration of tweaks, the amount of social sharing is surpassing even our lofty goals. If you haven't had the pleasure of receiving an Up welcome pack - sign up now. It's free and easy to try. Just don't forget to tag #upyeah

Daniel Wearne

Head of Design

@wernah

Tags: Welcome Pack, Onboarding, Design

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_designing-super-powered-events_.txt ===

Designing Super Powered Events

Building Up

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. As Australia's first purely digital bank, events are a chance to translate the digital Up brand and bring it to life in the real world.

From the beginning, we’ve wanted Up events to stand out. A pull-up-banner simply wouldn’t suffice, so the challenge in front of us was to:

Translate the Up brand into the physical world and give people a positive and meaningful experience.

Early on, events helped us to find our creative feet and figure out just what creating our “Upness” really meant. They forced us to bring a predominantly digital brand into the real world and this made them really valuable.

For a company that works predominantly in the digital realm, events let us connect face-to-face with our customers. We’ve never hired event staff, so customers would get to meet the engineers and designers who are actually on the tools day-to-day building Up. This has created a lot of love and many advocates. It also means that any feedback heard by Upsiders at events is delivered right to the source and is often pushed right back into the product.

Unexpectedly for a digital brand, events offer us a platform for experimentation. They encourage us to push our brand into new areas, take risks, and progress some weird yet wonderful visuals to new places.

Mapping out all the parts that go into planning Up events

At Up we talk a lot about iterating and being agile (see our thoughts on continuous delivery). This approach has translated well into the way we design events. Each event has been unique and had different ambitions, audiences and spaces to design. Our approach has evolved dramatically throughout the year and we’ve pushed ourselves to deliver a better experience each time. This has included looking for smarter ways to integrate our product and finding new ways to connect with people who haven’t heard about us yet.

Below are some of our favourite events and moments so far. In most cases, the final experience actually came out close to how we planned! 😮

Up Launch (Oct 2018)
Up's Launch event at Notel in Melbourne 2019
The mission

The objective of our first event - our launch - was to announce to the world that Up was live to the public. Our Melbourne launch was held at Notel and was particularly unique in that it was held inside and around 6 Airstreams parked on top of a converted Melbourne carpark. No big deal.

A unique setup

To make the most of the unique space we had available to us, we wanted to lead guests through a tour of the product by stepping them between the airstreams. Each airstream showcased a different “superpower”.

As they moved between caravans, guests would meet Upsiders, watch live demos, or use their newly opened Up accounts to purchase merchandise, food and drinks.

Launch event design concept (left) real life (right)
Launch event design concept (left) real life (right)
What we learnt

From an events perspective we learnt, firstly, that designing for curved roofs is hard 💯 as there is limited flat areas to attach materials. Secondly, large outdoor spaces tend to be exposed to the elements, so having wet weather plans is essential. We also learnt that the weight, structure and types of attachments you use to fix artwork to surfaces is really important to have mapped out - you want things to stick, but also to be sure you won’t damage expensive finishes.

The biggest take away from our launch though was that events are FUN! At first not everyone in the team could see themselves talking face to face with customers, but when you put a whole lot of effort into producing an event, and are super proud of what you’re showing-off, it creates a real buzz that everyone rallies behind.

Sydney launch event which took place at Design By Them's studio, in Chippendale

Want more photos of the Up launch? There’s plenty on Facebook here.

PAX (October 2018)

At Up we take our Mario Kart pretty seriously and things can get a little heated. To resolve any cough disputes about race positioning, our Head of Technology, Mike, built a custom analytics leaderboard. “Kartalytics” tracks the position of players during the match and shows their ranking in real-time. It also stores an office leaderboard to determine, definitively, who is the best at Kart. You can read more about Kartalytics here.

When the opportunity came up to be a part of PAX 2018 - the biggest gaming convention in the Southern Hemisphere - we jumped at the chance and knew exactly what we wanted to do.

We knew there’d be fellow Mario Kart fans at PAX, so why not challenge people to race us, and, if they defeated our valiant champions, win a pre-funded Up account? This felt like a great way to be relevant to the attendees, but also a good chance to show Up to a tech-savvy group of people.

Concept Design for PAX 2018
Real life execution of above concept design for PAX 2018
Activating Jeff’s shed (Melbourne Convention Centre)

With brand awareness and onboarding as our two main goals we set about designing two large spaces for the 3 day event.

Up isn’t afraid to be different and the assets we designed for PAX were minimal, lo-fi and directly contrasted to the headliners at PAX including Nintendo, Twitch and Alienware. We used bright posters, neon duct tape (super versatile) and some colourful TV displays to brand the spaces. As well as challenging Upsiders, we had staff available to chat and help customers join. At this event, we hadn’t quite cracked invite codes that could pay people a joining bonus, so we happily gave away free merch and badges.

Upsiders challenge PAX attendees to a game of Mario Kart
The best bits?

The highlight of PAX’18 was getting to rub shoulders with the Mario Kart World Champ 🎮. Fortunately for him we’d been playing Kart all weekend by the time he came around, so he won. We also got to talk to hundreds of curious gamers, which gave us lots of food for thought. The scale at which some of the other brands activated their spaces was also super inspiring. Maybe in a few years hey….

Pause Fest (Feb 2019)
Time to stop and think

After designing and building a few disposable event activations from scratch, we decided to pivot our design approach for Pause. While each event had come with different constraints (like timeframes, budgets, and availability of people), we wanted to develop an approach to presenting Up physically that would be re-usable across events. This would ultimately be better from a sustainability perspective, but also allow us to invest in making the initial construction something we were really happy with.

Concept sketches and vision of how the lightboxs can be configured in many ways
A lightbox moment

After lots of research, we landed on custom built lightboxes. Having quality frames made meant we could replace the graphics for each event and adapt to any space by stacking lightboxes in multiple configurations. The bright look and feel also fit well with our branding and let us intersperse our signature “Up” neon sign and TV’s, which could show rotating digital content and offers unique to each event.

Concept Sketches for Design of Up Activation at Pause Fest 2019
Real life execution with digital content for Up Activation at Pause Fest 2019
Good things are always harder than you expect

While the concept for the lightboxes looked great, during the build phase we hit a number of unexpected challenges. Fed Square in Melbourne has very specific regulations for “built structures” like our lightboxes, so we needed to modify the build and materials to meet engineering certifications. As a result, a lot more hands-on installation than we expected was needed, and the lightbox frames were made thicker and rougher than we had planned. There was a lot of back and forth throughout, but ultimately, the final installation had the impact we were after. 😎

Put a pin in it

To compliment the bright backdrop, we also created custom enamel pins and a special promotional code people could use to sign up. Having something to give away was important as even though signing up for Up only takes minutes, we wanted to make sure people had something to remember us by if they needed to take something and run. Designing for a creative, design-savvy crowd, our goal here was to make something that felt a lot less like a standard promotional flyer and instead more useful and fun. We wanted something that wouldn’t just be chucked in the nearest bin and that we’d be happy to wear ourselves.

Concept, prototyping and finished design for our giveaway at Pause Fest
finished design for our giveaway at Pause Fest

The enamel pins were mounted on quality letterpress card made from offcuts of our welcome packs. We gave away hundreds of the pins through the festival - there were two variants and we had people coming back to try and collect both.

University Orientation Days (March 2019)

For O-Week we wanted to connect with students and let them know about a smarter way to spend and save. Students attend O-Week to socialise, make new friends, learn more about life at Uni - and of course, grab some free stuff!

Activating across three universities and five campuses was no small feat for our tiny team. Our challenge was to create assets that would work across multiple locations to deliver a consistent (and fun) brand message and experience.

Concept design for O’week set ups
Real life execution of O-Week set up at Deakin University Waurn Ponds

Because students LOVE merch and giveaways, this was the focal point of our O-Week design. It was important that our merch (Up tees, totes and hats) were designed and made with high quality materials. Our ethos is that all merch should be something you want to wear, and can wear again and again due to its high quality.

The O-Week designs were bright and lively, with strong visual backdrops so students could create and share insta-worthy content with their peers. At RMIT we were even able to bring in the lighboxes created for Pause to help bring the space to life, giving it our signature Up look.

O-Week promo offer design (left) Students at RMIT signing up (right)

We had conversations with thousands of new students during a crazy, fun O-Week and over 1400 new signups. It was really rewarding being on the ground talking with new students about their journey, what was important to them about starting uni and Up, of course!

Our partners from Bendigo Bank on the ground for our O-Week events. Ensuring we have people who know the product and the brand.
PAX (October 2019)

Returning to PAX again in 2019 meant we had the opportunity to approach the design with the experience and lessons learnt the previous year. Our brand and product offerings were more mature, and we had a stronger sense of how to bring the space to life.

Digital concept design for 6m printed backdrop for PAX2019
Up at PAX 2019 set up
Custom Up @ PAX 2019 merch
Looking after Upsiders

We were pretty sure we’d have existing Up customers at PAX who wouldn’t be able to make use of the inivite codes we had available for people to join Up, but we didn’t want to leave them out in the cold. Given we knew lots of people attending PAX loved collectibles, and that we needed something to wear ourselves, we created some special edition 8-bit Up PAX shirts which we gave away to the first 30 Upsiders who came to visit our stand each morning. This was a total hit and we were swamped by groups of Upsiders on 2 of the 3 mornings.

Setup staples

We kept the neon tape art (of course), foam 3D cutouts and Up merch giveaways, but went for a simplified backdrop to create a highly photogenic display for the activation (another staple of our events activation kit). A 6m wide backdrop was produced to showcase key Up messages and we suspended our custom neon logo over the centre to create a captivating centrepiece.

Print process of Up flyers from Taylor'd Press for PAX 2019

The lovely team at Taylor’d Press printed us some great flyers, which made it heaps easier for everyone working to explain what Up was. The other great thing the flyers did was give customers a way to sign up even if they weren’t prepared to do it on the spot.

Attendees visit the Up stand to find out about Up and grab some free swag
Scan to join

A big focus of our efforts at PAX19 was making it easier for antendees to sign up. Since iOS 13, the ability to point the native iOS camera at a QR code and have it open a URL has meant we could leverage QR codes (see the backdrop display above) heavily to jump interested people into the App Store and offer a bonus on sign up.

The ability to make a bonus payments to new customers alongside our instant Apple, Google and Samsung Pay provisioning, has meant that customers can instantly experience Up to make their first payment at the event itself.

Mario fans gather to play Kart at the Up stand at PAX 2019
Kartalytics live in action at PAX 2019

From the gaming side, we made some significant upgrades to the tech running our custom Kartalytics software, including the Choke-o-meter - a chart in the bottom left showing the highs and lows of your position across 6 races -and some hardware upgrades letting us run multiple Kartistics at once!

Upsider staff demo the great things about Up to PAX attendees

See more photos from PAX19 on our Facebook Gallery.

Meet Up #1, Spring Tree Edition (Oct 2019)

In October 2019, Up turned one year old. To celebrate we hosted a Spring Tree, Meet Up which was a great chance to have a chat with current Upsiders and also to let them know about some exciting additions to our public product roadmap - The Tree of Up. Meet Ups were definitely something people responded to well - all 350 tickets sold out in 8 minutes.

As our first meet up, Spring Tree gave us the chance to develop some custom branding and visuals we can continue to use. We produced all manner of collateral: invites; stubby holders; lightboxes; tees and a custom photo wall, that all helped bring this event together visually.

It was also the perfect opportunity to refine the lightbox designs once again, with nicer finished casings, brighter lights and bolder prints. Each lightbox can now be individually powered, stacked and have its artwork adapted as needed. It was a real milestone for Up - as a business and a brand!

New lightboxes at SpringTree MeetUp, Panama Dining room October 2019
Design of assets used at Up's Spring Tree Meet Up event in Oct 2019

We also loved our signature 3D foam cutouts and the Panama Dining Room gave us the perfect backdrop to frame them up as part of a visually compelling environment.

Our head of product Anson shared some updates about exciting features on our the Up product roadmap.
Upsiders socialising at the Spring Tree event.

We used the Up 3D cutouts again in the Up photo booth, where Upsiders had some serious fun in front of the cameras and a giant Up media-wall. You’re such a photogenic bunch!

Upsider staff at the end of celebrating at Meet-Up #1

See more photos from our Spring Tree Meet Up here.

Bringing it all together.

As you can see, there’s lots of moving parts in our event design process. Events never end up exactly as planned, as things move and change and there are always plenty of unknowns, but this is a big part of the challenge.

A little over a year ago we could not have imagined setting up an installation at Pause Fest alongside Adobe, or running our Mario Kart Challenge alongside the likes of Nintendo and Twitch at PAX. Looking back and seeing how far we’ve come and what we’re capable of makes it really exciting to think about what comes next. It’s incredible to be part of such a lively team.

We’ve loved meeting you all, hearing what you’re looking for and sharing Up’s journey. We can’t wait to share more of this great thing we’re building here in Melbourne...Up!

If you haven't signed up already, give it a shot! You won’t look back, and the next time you see us out and about, come say hi!

Just want to call out some of the great humans we had the privilege of working with while making Up events a reality:

CIP— Pete Johnston & Fleur Salisbury, Creative direction and event management
Design and Deliver — Audio visual
Taylor’d Press- Print: digital and letterpress
Hanan Displays— Signage and physical builds
Curve Comms — Fee Townsend, public relations
Creffield— Many last-minute poster prints
Mira Levina— Pause Fest photography
The Up engineering team for their kartalytics side project

...and the supportive partners at Bendigo Bank and Ferocia. 👌

Hannah Gibson

@aitchgeewizz

Tags: Design, Pause Fest, PAX, Gaming, Lightbox, Events

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

In App Card Details are here!

Up

Dec 16, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_development_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Development
Back to Blog

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_development_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Development
Back to Blog

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018

=== blog_digital-cards_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Digital Cards
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

=== blog_easy-money-with-up-and-wise_.txt ===

Easy Money with Up and Wise

How to Up, Upsider Stores

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Looking at how seamless the Wise-Up transfer experience is and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan makes me laugh (and also cry a little bit for baby-me).

From travellers cheques to secs - How I Up with Wise

Hi, I’m Rukmal and I work at Up Banking, making money easy for more Australians.

Honesty is super important to our team and isn’t easily matched, but one partner-in-good that I was excited to see come on board was Wise. Wise has an ethos of money without borders, and working towards a more transparent financial future. I’ve travelled a lot, hope to do it again now (!), so that aim really resonates with me.

Story time
Your author in Japan.

Let’s cast back to sometime in 2007. Pre-smart phone and pre-COVID.

Your author, a youngling in his second year of uni, was planning a semester exchange to Japan.

I had grand plans of becoming fluent in Japanese. I’d totally immerse myself in Japanese life and make mates from all corners of the globe. The starry lights of Tokyo and my soon to be acquired knowledge of ‘nomihodai’ ensured that two out of three of those objectives were achieved (spoiler: still not fluent). Now as I reflect on that period of my life, I see it as one of the freest and most formative of my life.

One thing I don’t look back on fondly was the process required to set myself up with six months of money.

Old Money

Back then, you had a couple of options for changing money. You could wander around different bank branches and physically buy whatever yen they happened to have stashed behind the counter that day, haul it over with you, and pray. The best option was a combination of this, for cash to start you off, and then an antique curiosity called a ‘traveller’s cheque’.

These tasty treats came with 2-3% commissions, handling fees and the joy of the same fees on the other end when you cashed in. Also, if you lost them, they’d be lost forever. They might have been lighter than a stack of yen, but they weren’t heaps safer.

Setting up a bank account with my ‘the cat is under the table’ level of 日本語 was also a character building experience. Picture running real low on your petty cash, stacks of cheques in hand and shuttling between an internet cafe (thank you Google Translate) and Mizuho Bank to try and pass your ID checks.

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Looking at how seamless the Wise-Up transfer experience is and how easy it would have been for me makes me laugh (and also cry a little bit for baby-me).

A look at our stats since the magic that is Up’s integration with Wise went live shows that transfers to Japan usually happen in as quickly as a couple of hours; even faster than normal bank wires that can sit in the pipes for 2-5 days.

On top of that you get the real exchange rate without any of the mark-ups or hidden fees. Check out our live calculator to see it for yourself; there are price comparisons so you know when you’re getting a great deal!

And those card fees? No international fees, accessing the Mastercard rate without any mark-ups and purchases show up in both local currency and AUD. If something goes wrong, I can easily turn off international transactions with Up’s in-app card controls.

And best of all, I don’t need to store the ‘international number’ for my bank anywhere because I can chat with the legends in Up’s support team in a few swipes via Up’s in-app chat. For the weary traveller that last one is a biggie. A skerrick of free wifi and we’re right by your side, anywhere in the world.

Feel Good Money
Saving for a trip to Kyoto

With Up’s international payments powered by Wise, many of our customers have saved (e.g. up to ¥4000 for sending A$1000) while sending money back home to help out friends and family - it’s been a win-win!

For me, I’m thrilled to be able to quickly send my old pals in Japan the ¥ needed to sate my boutique sake cravings.

Up’s multiple savers are also perfect for those medium term holiday goals. Over Australia’s international lockdown I’ve made sure to set up a ‘Japan’ saver and funnel away my normal weekend pub spend. So ready to splurge guilt free!

And while my dad’s bound to ask me if I’ve got my traveller’s cheques sorted, I know that for all things money my Wise-Up combo makes opening up borders easy.

See you on the plane.

Rukmal De Silva

Partnerships

Tags: Wise, TransferWise, Travel, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_eftpos_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

EFTPOS
Back to Blog

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

=== blog_emergency-fund_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Emergency Fund
Back to Blog

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

=== blog_emergency-savings_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Emergency Savings
Back to Blog

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

=== blog_emojis_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Emojis
Back to Blog

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

New statements, new loaders, new emoji and skin tone support.

Up

May 22, 2019

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Emoji saver icons, change your mobile number, grouped transactions, and card controls.

Up

May 08, 2019

=== blog_envelope-queen_.txt ===

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Upsider Stories, How to Up, Spending and Budgeting, Saving

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Hi, my name is Emma, I’m 25, I live in Melbourne, and I’m a Project Officer working in the family violence space.

Budgeting is important to me because I believe if you plan your finances wisely as early as you can, you’re building the foundations for the rest of your life. Budgeting helps me make sure that I can still enjoy an avocado toast on the weekend, whilst saving for a home!

I wanted to tell you about how I use Up, because talking about money is one of my favourite things to do! It's still highly stigmatised and I think that needs to change. Talking about money transparently gives others greater confidence to achieve their goals.

The Cash Envelope System

It all started when I fell down the rabbit hole of watching cash envelope stuffing videos on YouTube. Some of the most popular are by Dave Ramsay but there are heaps of others.

With this way of budgeting, you get a paper envelope, write your budget category on that envelope and put your cash budget inside that envelope. You can only spend what is inside that envelope, which helps with discipline and keeps you accountable.

I really liked the idea of this system! The only problem is that it uses cash. This may sound weird as it is literally called the cash envelope system. The envelope system is based on the idea that people spend less when they have to part with physical cash.

But I started looking into this system right around when COVID-19 was beginning, and I could tell we were moving very quickly to becoming a cashless society.

Plus, all my bills are automated. The idea of trying to pay bills in cash feels weird. I went looking for a way to get the benefits of this method without the drawbacks of actually handling money.

My Cash Free Saver Kingdom
Map Out And Nail Your Money Goals With Savers
Learn more about Savers

Here's where Up comes in!

The feature that drew me to Up was Savers, because Savers mean I can use Up as a cashless cash envelope system. I can easily create my budget categories, one for each ‘envelope’, put my money in and away we go.

It's so easy to see where my money is coming and going and using a digital system still keeps me accountable.

To fill my ‘envelopes’ I use both automatic and manual payments.

My automatic payments to my Savers are for fixed expenses that occur periodically - subscriptions, sport fees, annual credit card fees, etc. Automatic payments ensure that I always have enough in my Savers when I need it, and it’s super handy that each automatic Saver tells me when I will reach my savings target.

I move my money manually for more flexible Savers: gifts, savings and general spending. These Savers are less essential. That’s why I move my money in when I want to, rather than making them a regular commitment.

Biometric Controls = Time To Think

In the cash envelope system, you can’t spend the money unless it’s actually with you. Say you finally find the vinyl you’ve been hunting down for ages. You can’t actually buy it unless you go home and get that money. It gives you time to think.

I’ve recreated this in Up by making myself physically move money to my spendable balance in order to use it. With biometric authentication. There’s no ‘float’ just waiting around in my spendable balance: I make myself stop and consider if this is something I need, or truly want.

I like that I really have to stop and think at the biometric authentication about whether I truly need to buy another plushie to keep me company through lockdown — and if the answer is yes, I do, then I get it 💝

Building Up an Emergency Saver

If I have extra money in a Saver I’ll usually let it build up over time. I wasn’t always like this: in the past if I had money in my account I was going to spend it. But using Savers as cash envelopes has taught me how to be disciplined with my money.

However, on the odd occasion things don’t always go to plan.

If I don’t have enough in a Saver for something that I need, that’s what my Emergency Saver is for. But, if I do need to dip into my Emergency Saver I really have to think about whether what I am about to purchase is something I truly need. Again, this is where biometric authentication comes in handy!

Adding a challenge with Round Ups

Along with Savers I also use the Round Up feature. Round Ups are such a good way to build your savings, because you don’t even realise you’re saving money when it happens. I have my Round Ups set to go to my general savings.

This Saver I also use for a savings challenge that I’ve been doing throughout 2021 - during the first week of the year save $1, during the second week of the year save $2, and on, and on. I’m not sure what I'm going to use my Savings Saver for yet (fingers crossed for travel in 2022!), but Round Ups helps ensure it grows just that little bit more without me realising.

How do you use Up?

The Up team would love to make this post part of a series, about all the ways people customise Up to fit their own personal money style. If you’ve got a story to tell, email Anne at anne@up.com.au!

Emma Nugent

Tags: Cash Envelopes, Budgeting, Savings Goals, Round Ups, Savers, Biometric Controls

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_events_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Events
Back to Blog

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

=== blog_exporting-from-up_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Exporting from Up
Back to Blog

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019

=== blog_fashion_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Fashion
Back to Blog

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

=== blog_feel-good-features_.txt ===

Feel-Good Features

Updates

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

HIDDEN SAVERS:

Out of sight, out of mind – there’s really no other way to describe it. You now have the ability to hide your savings from your total balance so you know exactly what you’ve got left to spend.

You can still access your Savers with ease whenever you need, but it’s now a whole lot easier to avoid digging into your savings. Curb the temptations of impulse-spending with Hidden Savers.

UNDO COVERS & FORWARDS:

Does what it says on the box. You now have the ability to undo a Cover or Forward by tapping into the transaction from your Activity feed. From there, simply tap ‘Undo Cover/Forward for this purchase’. It’s like it never happened.

LINK TO CONTACT PAYDAY:

You can now choose to ‘Link a Payment Contact’ by visiting Pay Day in the Upcoming tab. If it’s your first time, we’ll give you the option when getting set up.

If you already have Pay Day setup, you’ll see a prompt to link a payment contact. You can also now edit your Pay Splitting from here too. Genuine Pay Day accuracy.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Hidden Savers, Pay Day, Payments, Covers & Forwards

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

A night with Poncili Creación

At this year's RISING festival, we sat down with one half of the creatively unhinged duo, Poncili Creación to chat dreams, underground artists and seagulls. Yep, seagulls.

Up

Jun 29, 2023

UP x RISING

Melbourne’s premier art, music, food and culture festival RISING is done and dusted for 2023 after 12 evenings under moonlight in the heart of town.

Up

Jun 23, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_five-ways-up-can-help-you-spend-wisely_.txt ===

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

Building Up

Up exists to help people get from a place where money is a cause of stress and anxiety to a place where you feel empowered and have greater control of your finances.

Everything we build into Up is designed to help you spend wisely and save effortlessly. The economic uncertainty occurring as a result of COVID-19 makes being wise with your money more important than ever.

Here are 5 ways you use Up to make the most of what money you have coming in.

1. Pay your bills through Up so you can see what’s coming up next

By paying your bills with Up you can make use of the Upcoming spend feature. This does its best to automatically detect your upcoming bills and help you understand what you’ve currently committed to and when you’re likely to be charged next.

Once you can see all your upcoming expenses laid out in front of you, and know how much that will cost you, you can make decisions about which you keep and which you can do without, particularly when times are tough. You may also want to consider downgrading or pausing certain subscriptions if you don’t think you can go without them for long but might not need everything they offer right now.

2. Use Up Savers to put money aside for your bills and expenses

Creating Savers for each of your upcoming bills or for different categories of expenses is a great way to put money aside for essentials. Using Up you can set up as many Savers as you need, give each a target amount and emoji so you can see at a glance how you're tracking towards various expenses or goals.

Savers also keep your money out of mind and ready for when it’s needed so you’re not left short. They can also be used like a priority list for your money. Long press on one to drag it into an order that suits your thinking.

Covers and forwards also work really well alongside specific Savers. When you buy something from your spending account, use the Covers feature to “cover” that purchase from the appropriate Up Saver. When that Saver is empty, you’re out of money for that category of expenses. Done. To cover a purchase, simply long press on a transaction and you'll be given a list of Savers to cover it from.

3. Know where you stand with Up balance notifications

Health advice recently includes a recommendation to minimise the use of cash when paying for things. Up sets you up well for this given we support both tap and pay transactions using your debit card and pretty much all the digital wallets out there. If you need to deposit cash or cheque you can now use Bank@Post™ for free with Up - we encourage everyone that needs to do this to keep a safe distance from each other.

While we love our digital wallets, one downside of making digital transactions is that you don’t necessarily get the same tacit awareness of how much you're spending compared to when you were handing over stacks of physical notes. To overcome this, Up sends you a push notification for every transaction you make, which also includes your balance. This means you’re always on top of how much you’ve got in your account and can reduce the likelihood you'll spend more than you can afford.

4. Track your spend rate using Up’s automatic spending Insights

When you have a finite amount of money understanding where you’re spending it is key to making sure you’re using it wisely. Every transaction you make using Up is automatically categorised into a range of helpful budgeting categories you can use to track your monthly spending and see how you’re tracking versus the previous three months’ worth of transactions.

Tracking and comparing your spending month-to-month is really useful if you find yourself needing to reduce your spending in a category and want to know how you’re tracking mid-month, or want to see how your spending habits change over time. Having this knowledge gives you the power to change the things you’re not happy with.

5. Use Pay Splitting and Auto-Transfers with Up to make budgeting easier

We know that lots of Upsiders have casual jobs and there’s a high chance that those lucky enough to get paid over the next few months will get paid less than they’re used to.

Pay Splitting was designed with casual workers in mind, providing a way for you to take your pay and dice it into your Savers as soon as it arrives. For example, some people allocate a certain percentage of their salary for the "Good Life" and transfer the rest straight into a Saver. Having it so the majority of your money is a step away can be a great way to ensure you don’t spend as much of it 😉

Auto-transfers to and from Savers are similar, but allow you to move specific amounts for expenses that have a fixed dollar value (like rent). If you get paid at a regular time on a schedule, setting up an auto-transfer to move money into a designated Saver automatically helps make sure you put it aside.

Good luck!

There are tonnes of other ways you can use Up to help you spend wisely. These are just a few we hope are particularly helpful for you over the next few months.




Please remember that Up does not provide financial advice, this is general advice. Up has not taken into account your personal objectives, financial situation or needs. You should consider the Up terms before making a decision to use Up. The information on this website is for general information only.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Welcome Pack, Design, Upcoming, Savers, Covers, Forwards, Insights, Balance notifications, Bills

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_forwards_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Forwards
Back to Blog

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

=== blog_fx_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

FX
Back to Blog

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

=== blog_gaming_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Gaming
Back to Blog

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

=== blog_get-to-know-the-2021-line-up_.txt ===

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

How to Up, Building Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Request Money

RELEASED FEBRUARY

What does it do?

Allows you to request money from other Upsiders, sending them a message with a requested amount for them to approve.

Why did we build it?

Requesting money felt like an essential (but missing) piece of the payment puzzle. We thought being able to directly request money (and get notified about payments) rather than relying on the other person "getting around to it" would greatly reduce "Owed Money Tension" and make life more awesome for Upsiders.

Who's it for?

Anyone and everyone! Any time you spot a mate some cash you can easily create a request for the money you're owed. Up takes care of the rest, including reminders for those who might need an extra prod now and again.

How's it going?

So far Upsiders have successfully gathered over $4.5M using requests. Nearly 100,000 requests have been approved. Better still, half of all requests are repaid in less than 15 minutes! IOU... beauty!

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/blog/introducing-payment-requests/

Quick Release
🔍 Quick Release: Search

While your transactions are lovingly labelled and logo'ed, you sometimes need a faster way to find that needle in the haystack. Search lets you enter in some text or an amount and see all the matching transactions you've made on Up.

Trackers

RELEASED APRIL

What does it do?

Trackers let you keep a watchful eye on your spending across any of our 40 spending categories. You can set a monthly spend amount and get updates throughout the month on how you're tracking against that figure.

Why did we build it?

Spending and saving are a bit like the diet and exercise of money — they're both important factors that contribute to your financial health. We wanted to move beyond the more passive insights available in the app, into providing more proactive notifications on categories Upsiders want to manage. There are many approaches we could have taken to introducing budgeting tools, but it made sense to us to go with something simple and targeted as a starting point.

Who's it for?

Any Upsider that wants to keep a closer eye on their spending in certain areas. Trackers are not purely about reducing spend! It might be that you want to simply stay more closely updated on how much you're spending on a category like takeaway or clothes.

How's it going?

Many tens of thousands of Trackers have been created, with Groceries, Takeaway, and Restaurants & Cafes amongst the most watched categories. Every month we’re encouraged to see a growing majority of Upsiders spending within their tracked amount.

Where to next?

We've heard from Upsiders wanting to track spending over a different period than monthly as well as combine a number of categories into a single Tracker — both ideas we are interested in exploring in the future!

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/features/budget-trackers/

Quick Release
📱 Quick Release: Widgets!

Widgets are small rectangles of information that live on your phone’s home screens. They’re a great way to stay informed outside of the app. Up supports a variety of widgets from displaying info on your balances and recent transactions through to keeping you updated on Trackers and Insights.

Two Up

RELEASED MAY

What does it do?

2UP is our new take on joint accounts. Unlike the all-in couples accounts that came before it, 2Up is designed to let you collaborate on finances with your partner at whatever level makes sense for you. Your own stuff stays private and it’s super easy to set up and shut down.

Why did we build it?

Joint accounts had long been one our most requested features, but outside of that, we saw countless numbers of couples that were living together and sharing expenses without any real tools to help them.

Who's it for?

One of the great things about 2Up is its flexibility. People at all different life stages can find a way to incorporate 2Up that works for them. In fact we see the complete spectrum of couples all the way from sharing a couple of bills each month to going all-in with finances.

How's it going?

We’re excited to have reimagined the way couples can collaborate on their finances, including saving for combined goals. The majority of 2Ups are started by Upsiders that have never had a joint account before.

Any future plans?

In the near future we’re hoping to finish up getting a few last features complete (covers & forwards, pay splitting from 2Up) etc. But more generally every new feature we develop now gets consideration as to how it can work for 2 players.

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/2up/

Quick Release
🪓 Quick Release: Exact $ Splits

Pay splits are one of our best yet least-known features – a great tool that lets you split percentages of your pay into Savers. Earlier this year we added a hotly requested enhancement: you can now split exact $ amounts into your Savers when your pay comes in!

Pay Day

RELEASED JULY

What does it do?

Gives you a picture of your “spendable” balance — that is, the money in your account you can actually spend once bills and upcoming charges due before your next pay day are taken into account.

Why did we build it?

Pay day is a bit like a tube of toothpaste (bear with us) – at first you’re using it thick and fast (half of it goes down the drain and you don’t bat an eyelid) but near the end you’re squeezing out every last drop and often making a tiny amount stretch over a surprising number of days. Yeah, we wanted to help with that.

Who's it for?

Anyone who gets paid (or receives money) on Up at a regular interval – weekly, fortnightly, monthly, etc. The feature works best once you've added your bills and scheduled payments into Upcoming.

How's it going?

We’re thrilled at the response — 10’s of thousands of Upsiders now have their Pay Day set up and are enjoying the new visibility of a Spendable balance. It’s been interesting to better understand which pay cycles are the most frequent — fortnightly wins by a country mile.

Any future plans?

We plan to better support reserving money for future bills on different cycles to your pay. For example, if you have a fortnightly bill but get paid weekly, half of that bill should be reserved from each pay. We also have a ton of great feedback around excluding charges from Spendable and manually adding future charges that we want to look into.

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/features/pay-day/

Quick Release
🍿 Quick Release: GIF support

Up now lets you add animated GIFs to payments, requests and replies with other Upsiders. Just tap the GIF icon next to the send button on a payment or request and make your selection!

Slices

RELEASED NOVEMBER

What does it do?

Slices lets you split a purchase or bill with your mates on Up. Slice a bill evenly, by shares (great when you’re paying for a friend) or dial in exact dollar amounts.

Why did we build it?

We want to make money easier with mates so Up can be even better when your friends and family are on it too. Being able to send a copy of a transaction along with a request means payers can get a better understanding of where their money is going (if you split a meal with a friend, each share is automatically categorised).

Who's it for?

Groups of friends on Up. Whether you know two Upsiders or twenty you should be able to find a way to use Slices. We've heard stories of couples, workmates, family and everyone in between getting their Slice on.

How's it going?

Already we've seen over $2M in transactions sliced between 10’s of thousands of Upsiders. It shouldn’t come as a big surprise that three categories make up the bulk of Slices: Restaurants & Cafes, Takeaway and Groceries.

Any future plans?

Yep! But this feature is fresh out of the oven so we don't want to give too much away just yet.

Where can I find out more? / How do I do it?

https://up.com.au/features/slices/

That's a wrap
That’s a wrap!

Those were some of the major features we released last year. It's not even the full list, but we'll leave the rest for you to discover. If some of those came as a surprise or you only recently joined Up, here's how to keep your finger on the pulse in 2022:

Make sure you're subscribed to the monthly newsletter
Follow us on the socials: Twitter and Instagram
Check out our blog
Keep an eye on the Tree of Up, our public roadmap

Here's looking forward to more years ahead – we’re pumped to be taking the journey together!

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Slices, Pay Day, Trackers, Request Money, 2Up, Development

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2021

Up

Dec 14, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_get-to-know-the-2022-line-up_.txt ===

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

How to Up, Building Up, Development

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Save Up 1000

RELEASED FEBRUARY 2022

What does it do?

Challenges you to save your way to $1,000 in a year by selecting from a range of small amounts to save each week. You’ll get regular reminders to save and even a few optional cheat weeks to help you stay in the game.

Why did we build it?

Ever since we included the Save Up 1000 Challenge in our welcome pack mailer we knew its true home was in the app. We think helping Upsiders save their first $1K and gaining that belief that they can save is about as good as it gets!

Who's it for?

If you’ve always wanted to save but never got into the habit, Save Up 1000 is for you. Or if you just really fancy having a spare grand in your Savers this time next year.

“It was a challenge and I don’t like failing challenges 😂” - Upsider

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/features/save-up-1000/

Quick Release
Home Deposit Savers 🏡

Dreaming of a tiny home or helipad to call your own? No matter where you are in the dream-to-deposit journey, Home Deposit Savers are custom cut from only the finest Saver fabric, to help you get there better than regular bank accounts.

Tell Up what you have saved (both in Up and anywhere else), what you can put away each pay, and what you hope to buy. We’ll give you a timeline that takes into account all this stuff, as well as stuff like stamp deposit and first home buyer grants.

The path to your own place is now power washed clear.

https://up.com.au/features/home-savers/

Maybuy

RELEASED AUGUST 2022

What does it do?

Like kryptonite for buyer’s remorse, Maybuy lets you easily save in instalments for the things you want while allowing you to change your mind at any time and bank the money you’ve saved.

Why did we build it?

The world is full of amazing things to buy and our apps are now full of ads for those things! Temptation is everywhere and pay-later offers are readily available. Talk about a recipe for regret! We wanted to provide an alternative that still captured some of the thrill of the hunt, but backed it with a savings-based solution where no one loses.

Who's it for?

All of us. Maybuy is not just a cooling-off valve for fast fashion faux-pas, but a way to save for your next iPhone, car registration renewal or NYE festival ticket. See how some of our good mates are using Maybuy

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/features/maybuy/

Quick Release
Improved Insights 👀

This year we overhauled Spending Insights to now offer you a financial reality in the timeline of your choosing. Monthly insights were our OG, letting you see how your spending and saving progressed through the year. But now they’ve made room for Insights by Pay Day, Year, Financial Year or a custom timeline, so the choice of Insight is yours.

Compare Insight periods with a swipe & observe your spending categories from above your feed. Trackers, tags and CSV export now fall in line with your time bending abilities. Where will your new insights take you?

https://up.com.au/blog/custom-spending-insights/

Locked Savers

RELEASED AUGUST 2022

What does it do?

Locking a Saver helps protect your hard-won savings from impulsive spending. When you really, really, definitely need that money, you can unlock it again, but you’ll need to either wait three hours for the lock to spring, or get a well-chosen mate to help you open it faster.

Why did we build it?

Upsiders have been asking us to keep their money away from them since the day we launched. We used to laugh it off, but we soon realised you were serious. And very persistent..

Who's it for?

Everyone who’s ever struggled to save in the face of dinners out, Friday drinks, Saturday sales and… look, it’s for everyone.

“...the new Lock Saver feature is amazing and is long enough that any impulse urge I have to spend has generally passed before my saver is finished counting down. This is a game changer.”

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/blog/locked-savers-savings-self-defence/

Quick Release
2Up Reactions 😱

If you’re a 2Upsider (an Upsider with 2Up) you’ll be no stranger to seeing that notification pop up from your Player 2 spending it up. Whether they’re picking up dinner, the groceries, or paying the vet bill we found ourselves wanting to slap an emoji on it to acknowledge their efforts (or ruthlessly judge them for a late-night Macca’s run). How you use it is really up to you…

https://up.com.au/2up/

Zap card

RELEASED MARCH 2022

What does it do?

Gives new Upsiders a digital debit card that’s immediately available for use online or in digital wallets.

Why did we build it?

Before Zap (BZ), new Upsiders would need to wait for their plastic card to arrive to get their card details. This could be frustrating for Upsiders wanting to move bills over or purchase stuff online. The Zap Card solves that frustration. Not only that, but it’s easy on the environment, making a plastic card an option, not a default.

Who's it for?

New Upsiders, yes. But existing Upsiders, too, can add a Zap card to Up. This can be great to get new card details in the unfortunate event your physical card is lost or stolen.

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/features/cards

Up Home

RELEASED JULY 2022

What does it do?

Up Home is what a home loan is supposed to be. No weird fees or haggling on the (ugh) phone. Just a simple good home loan that lives in your Up app.

Why did we build it?

We looked around at home loans and thought they could be better. Different rates for different people, plus complicated combos of offsets and redraw and rate combos and.. It all seemed a bit unnecessary, yeah?

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. All your Savers become free offsets; redraw is free too; and your loan sits right in there with all your other Up stuff so you stay in touch. You can use Up features like Round Ups and Pay Splitting to pay it off faster too, if you want.

Who's it for?

Right now, Up Home is designed for people who are refinancing a home they live in.

Where to next?

We’re working hard to get Up Home ready for those of you who are shopping around for a home and want pre-approval. Hold on to your jocks, it won’t be long now.

Where can I find out more?

https://up.com.au/home-loans



That's a wrap

Those were some of the major features we released last year. It's not even the full list, but we'll leave the rest for you to discover. If some of those came as a surprise or you only recently joined Up, here's how to keep your finger on the pulse in 2023:

Make sure you're subscribed to the monthly newsletter
Follow us on the socials: Twitter and Instagram
Check out our blog
Keep an eye on the Tree of Up, our public roadmap

Here's looking forward to more years ahead – we’re pumped to be taking the journey together!

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Locked Savers, Maybuy, Save Up 1000, Up Home, Zap Card

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

New Year’s resolutions feel good to make, but there’s a smarter way to change. Upsider Anna shares her secret to really saving.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

Jan 04, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_google-pay_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Google Pay
Back to Blog

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019

=== blog_hackday_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Hackday
Back to Blog

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020

=== blog_hi-fi-the-financially-sound-system_.txt ===

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

How to Up, Building Up, Innovation

What is Hi—Fi?

Launched on Oct 30, 2023, Hi—Fi is our take on the future of money management. It combines both a regular check-in to see how you’re feeling about your money with a simple, automated system focused on helping you move easily between pay days, confident your bills are sorted, savings goals on track, and you have a clear picture of what you have left to spend on the good life.

Hi—Fi assembles a collection of great Up features — Pay Day, Upcoming, Spendable Balance, and Pay Splits, bringing them together into a simple, cohesive system, guiding you through the set up of each component.

Despite its simplicity, Hi—Fi offers great flexibility. It allows you to start with the most straightforward budgeting system, clearly separating your “needs” from your “wants”, while allowing you to dial it up to a far more intricate envelope-style system should you desire.

Hi—Fi is likely the first of its kind and in our mind represents a step change in what customers can expect from digital banking — a fundamental shift from a set of tools to a fully fledged money system.

Why did we build Hi—Fi?

We’re serious about improving our customers financial wellbeing, and despite the amazing feedback we get each day telling us we’re doing a good job, we felt we needed a more scientific way to measure whether we’re really helping Upsiders and if so, by how much.

Our solution was to develop our own financial wellbeing score, based on prior research in the space—by asking Upsiders a short set of questions around their relationship with money — how they feel about their finances, the ease (or difficulty) with which they meet their everyday commitments, their resilience in the face of unexpected expenses and their trajectory towards financial security.

We worked hard to not only create a meaningful survey, but to make it engaging and ensure Upsiders really thought about the questions and their answers, rather than just tapping through it absent-mindedly. To that end we’ve used music and a “headphones on” experience to transport people to a place of deeper reflection.

With this score (or quantified approach) we’ll be able to better understand how Upsiders progress their financial capabilities over time and measure the impact we’re able to make.

As we were developing the survey we were thinking through the best way to then help Upsiders maintain or improve their score over time. We soon realised there was an amazing opportunity to go beyond written hints, tips and nudges and explore a more visual approach…

The System

It’s no great secret that money has an engagement problem. Across the country the majority of people don’t like to think about money, let alone talk about it. For half a decade we’ve been working to solve for this, developing engaging experiences to reconnect people to their spending and finances. And Hi—Fi is no exception.

In setting up Hi—Fi you’ll not only build a money management system, but also an audio/visual one. This visual representation of your system is something that’s unique and personal to you. It can also act as a financial recipe to inspire and educate others.

We’re hopeful this approach can help us reach a far broader audience. We’d love to see every Upsider proudly build and share their unique approach to money management.

Who is Hi—Fi for?

We’ve seen some early feedback from customers along the lines of “Hi—Fi is OK, but I’m doing this stuff already”. Far from being discouraging, we see this as hugely positive. But we’re also aware that this feedback does not represent the majority of us.

There are (of course) Upsiders who’ve been doing great with money without needing Hi—Fi to guide them to that place. Our sights are set, however, on the majority of customers (and Australians for that matter) who struggle to either take an interest in getting more deliberate with money, or who begin a system (perhaps one they’ve read in a book) but find it too difficult to stick with it.

We see Hi—Fi as an opportunity to bring a simple and sustainable money system to the vast majority of Australians who’ve either failed to get interest, or stay interested, in a system to manage their money.

Getting Australians to a place where their bills are sorted, they’ve identified and are working towards savings goals, and they’re able to truly understand how much remains for enjoying life would be a huge improvement for many.

Where to from here?

With the core of Hi—Fi built, we’re keen to see how Upsiders take to it. We’ll be updating the survey regularly to keep it relevant and interesting and throw in a few surprises along the way.

Over time we’ll also be looking to build a bigger picture of your finances, so please let us know if there are things you’d like to see in Hi—Fi.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Pay Day, Upcoming, Spendable Balance, Pay Splits

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

A night with Poncili Creación

At this year's RISING festival, we sat down with one half of the creatively unhinged duo, Poncili Creación to chat dreams, underground artists and seagulls. Yep, seagulls.

Up

Jun 29, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_hidden-savers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Hidden Savers
Back to Blog

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

=== blog_history_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

History
Back to Blog

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Retro logos are the best logos.

Anthony Langhorne

Apr 01, 2020

Rebooting Banking

Our journey began with a simple question: what could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

Anson Parker

Oct 31, 2018

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018

=== blog_hook-up-a-mate_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Hook Up a Mate
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

=== blog_how-to-save-for-a-baby_.txt ===

How to Save for a Baby

Saving

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Babies are great. When they’re small, you can pop them in a tiny backpack and carry them around with you, and when they’re older they can get you a sandwich while you stay in bed.

Heaps of the Up team are having babies right now — seriously, we could start a dodgeball team as soon as they all start walking — and since mine are six and four right now, I'm taking a moment to share my best baby-having savings tips with them, and with you.

We talk a lot about saving here at Up. I reckon saving for a baby deserves its own blog post, cause it feels different to other kinds of saving. There's a tight timeline, and it's full of unknowns that can keep you up at night. I definitely had low key panic attacks early on, reading about what childcare might cost.

Baby stuff might feel pretty intimidating – but if you don't have extra thousands sitting around in your Savers (I definitely didn't!), that is perfectly OK. You're still going to be able to give your little person everything they need.

But babies will cost money in some ways, and a little planning can really pay off, especially for your mental health and for buying time off work to get to know your new smol bestie.

No one ever plans perfectly for a baby. Sometimes we don’t even get the option to try. So, let’s ditch extremely unhelpful ideas about perfection, and take a look at savings strategies that are in your control. Whether you’re just thinking about it or a little human is already in countdown mode, you can take steps to save.

In this blog post:
Decide on what you'll actually need
Getting set up
Ongoing costs: what’s critical and what’s just not
Walking your own path as a parent (and with $)
Asking for help ( because people want to help)
What really matters when you're saving for a new baby (hint: it's not a $5000 pram)
Decide on what you’ll actually need

OK. There are some core financial responsibilities that come with most babies. They mostly fall into two categories: getting set up and ongoing costs. I'll break each down below so you can decide what price point you want to be at, knowing you don’t have to splurge on everything. A baby doesn’t know if it’s sleeping in a designer Scandi crib or a bassinette on loan from friends. Your best is exactly right.

Of course you'll change your mind a bit as you go, but putting together a rough budget for what you plan to spend at the beginning and ongoing, will help you decide how much to put aside.

PRO TIP: Setting up or boosting Round Ups on that special Saver now, could help you out of an unexpected cost or two when baby arrives.

Map Out And Nail Your Money Goals With Savers
Learn more about Savers
Getting set up

How much will you need at the beginning of baby's life? Well, there will be some non-negotiables. Baby needs a place to sleep, a way to get around, and weather-appropriate clothes.

Sleeping configurations are a personal choice. Do some research into benefits and risks associated with the different options. You may not need a full-sized crib until later, so you can start with simple and find the next thing once your bubba has let you know what they need. Also, babies outgrow their beds really fast, so there are often second-hand ones floating around.

If you drive, you'll need a safe car seat that’s properly installed. If possible, get a brand-new one – you just don’t know if second-hand seats have been involved in accidents that might make them unsafe. A pram or carrier will make it easier to get to the shops.

Babies basically live in their PJs and they go through approximately three million changes a day. You'll want bulk socks, jumpsuits, singlets, hats or beanies, and leggings. For sure, have some cute stuff, but the second change at 2am just needs to be on.

If you’re breastfeeding, you'll want breast pads and a bra that’s easy to unclip. If you’re formula feeding, you’ll need some bottles, teats and a way to clean them. Burp cloths and wraps will help with mess, but old t-shirts also do a perfect job.

It can help to get ahead on some items. When your budget allows, think about building a stockpile of nappies (in the larger sizes, cause some babies come out bigger than others and they all grow fast). They regularly go on half price at the supermarket, so you can save by keeping your eyes peeled. Pick up a nappy cream. Skip the change table – you’re just as likely to change your baby on a towel on your bed.

Optional: a miniature bath, squeaky toys, picture books, a breast pump, a nappy bag that unfolds into a change mat, professional newborn photos.

Skip it: automated bottle sterilisers, self-propelling swings, jeans, miniature cutlery, tiny Nikes. I swear to you they will just kick off the Nikes.

With Maybuy, you can track and save for things you'll need, but only buy them when you’re totally ready. So if you find the perfect PJ’s on Gumtree, you can roll those savings back for something else.

Ongoing costs

OK, that's setup, but we're also looking to carve room in every pay for this new small person. That's more of an ongoing saving program.

In a lot of ways, the ongoing costs for babies are the same as for us, but littler: food, clothes, medicine and little treats that make life bearable. You may see an increase in your utility bills, especially if the weather is very hot or cold when baby arrives: you’ll be up and moving around in the middle of the night, and you’ll want everyone to be comfy.

Before baby arrives, check that you’re on the right plans and with the right providers. How much data are you actually using? Is there a bundle that will save you dosh? Would switching to another service provider be more cost effective in the long run? Are you paying account keeping fees for no reason? Insights might come in handy here to check your spending for things that could be reduced or nixed completely.

The other major ongoing cost for many families is childcare. There are different types and the cost varies accordingly. Visiting local centres is a good place to start, but it can also be helpful to ask friends, family and that cute family in the park for recommendations. I looked at some really cool play centres for my kids, but I'm pretty happy that I settled on a place that was low-key (and lower cost) but totally loving.

Childcare can come at a hefty cost, which is hard when you need it to get back to work. Check if you’re eligible for government assistance available through the Child Care Rebate and/or Child Care Subsidy, or speak to Services Australia directly to find out what support is available.

Walk your own path

Feels like advice and opinions on what you 'need' to buy are everywhere? Yep, and it's a real mixed bag. This is one of those times in your life when who you listen to is probably going to change forever anyway, so take a step back from the pretty Insta posts (hashtag #sponsored) and choose your mentors carefully. It can save you both stress and serious cash.

Talk to your doctor about how long you’ll probably be able to keep working, so you can figure out how much time out you'll need to cover. If you have a partner, strategise on sharing the time off. Ask about support options when you go to medical appointments: midwives and community nurses in particular absolutely love hooking you up with free stuff and services.

I found it was also really helpful for my mental health to find people who were parenting in similar circumstances as me. For a while it felt like everyone could (and wanted to) take extended time off work, use private health cover, rely on a phenomenal partner who has a great job, and buy pretty clothes on a whim. But everyone has challenges to figure out, and you can choose to connect with people who are walking the same path as you.

Ask and you shall save

When you let people know what you need, heaps of them are going to want to help. I found that a lot of the help I got was completely unexpected. Colleagues came out of nowhere with massive bags of clothes, and that angel at the coffee shop who held the kid mid-puke will be my forever bestie. The single mates who rocked up to visit with fresh coffee and a bag of fruit will have my love until I die.

Ask people what baby items they couldn’t have lived without, and then ask if they still have them. Now that I'm done with having littlies, I'm super grateful to get the storage space back, so think about it this way: you're also doing them a favour.

Local social media groups will often have bags of second-hand baby clothes and gear for sale or for free. Have a chat with the sellers: you can save serious dollars by making one mate whose kiddo is a bit bigger than yours, and one mate whose baby is littler. Friends will share those free vouchers from food delivery services. Kind neighbours will bring around the things you forgot at the supermarket.

Lean on what’s provided at childcare, free kids’ fruit at the supermarket, end-of-day specials, the weird-looking veggies people think taste worse (they don’t). If your kid gets fruit and veg at childcare and at Woolies, they will survive and thrive if dinner is very often pasta with Kraft parm at home. (Ask me how I know.)

Accept offers to babysit, clean the house or do a shop run. Use the coupon. Freeze the leftovers. Anything that is going to make your life easier to manage.

If you're lucky enough to be asked about a baby registry, write it with the knowledge that people love you. (Personally I'd just ask for wipes and nappies and never ever regret it. I still use baby wipes every day.)

Plan to be able to do less

You’re about to sleep less and be in high physical demand. If you're the one who's pregnant, that's started already.

It’s likely your plans will need a few contingencies. The best thing you can do is try to embrace it. It’s probably going to take longer to get ready to go out. Daytime activities may need to fit around naptimes. When you do have time for yourself, you might just want to close your eyes for a few days.

Recognising this can be helpful for budgeting. Working the same shifts as before may be too much, or you could need more time to recover than you expected. If you can, maybe work to a slightly lower weekly expenditure than you can afford, in case you need a bit more later. Splitting part of your pay into an emergency fund now could get you out of a jam later.

On the upside, you may well be doing less and going out less for the next eighteen years or so. If people want to see you, you can suggest they come over. With snacks. They’ll probably really appreciate you being clear about how they can help – and then you have snacks.

Don’t spend money on a solar-powered organic bottle warmer

Baby stuff is a lucrative industry. It’s easy to see why – it’s tiny, adorable, and the marketing makes it seem as though you’re neglecting your baby if you don’t buy it.

That’s simply not true.

Because my best baby saving PRO TIP is this.

Your baby needs four things: to be warm, fed, clean and loved. And if you're already reading this and thinking about how to save a bit now to make all of that easier later, I reckon that baby is going to be just fine.

Anne Shea

Content, Community & Communications

@annie_shea

Tags: Babies, Budgeting

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2022

Up

Dec 13, 2022

Custom Spending Insights

Noticed a new taste of rainbow in your Up feed? We’ve tuned up Insights so they can turn at your speed. Engineer María Acuña lays out what’s changing.

Maria

Dec 01, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_how-to-start-saving-with-up_.txt ===

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

Updates, Saving, How to Up

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

What did you learn at school? The right chemicals to mix for tiny explosions. How to skip class without your mum finding out. The mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell. Not much about managing your money, though, right? Same.

Actually, heaps of us enter the workforce without great financial skills (and only hazy memories of right-angled triangles).

So, if saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. Other banks want you to use five different apps to track spending, set budgets and make savings goals. That feels like hard work … because it is. Some of us just aren’t good at saving money. We get $50 in a separate account and then yank it out to impulse buy something. We try. But it can feel like the odds are stacked against us.

We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress.

Phones ready? Let’s go.

Find out how much you’re really spending

Let’s be serious: this one can feel hard. Lots of us find it pretty confronting to pay close attention to how much we’re spending. Sometimes we avoid looking at our bank balances at all.

But knowing what’s really going in and out is worth the deep breath and the jump. It can help you to set realistic goals and find places to cut back on unnecessary spending.

Grouping transactions together helps a lot. Up automatically categorises everything you’re buying, from essentials like groceries and transport to sometimes treats like booze and gifts. It shows you everything on a handy (and, can we say, sexy) dashboard: how much came in, how much went out and where it fits. Then, drill down into each category to see exactly what you spent and where. You might also get a little inspiration on the spending that isn’t serving you.

Can’t smash savings goals if you don’t know what they are

Legend has it that some people see things they want and save up for them. Sounds like magic. But imagine, for a moment, that you’re one of these people. You’ve found something you want. A new phone. A tattoo. Tickets to see Hamilton while everyone still remembers the lyrics.

Whatever your heart’s desire, it’s easier to save when you’ve got a clear goal. In the ‘biz’ (people in suits sitting in board rooms) they call these SMART goals – specific, measurable, attainable, relevant and time-based. That means:

Know what you’re saving for (Sausage dog called Taco)
Decide how much you need ($800 + $100 for a dog bed shaped like a couch)
Give yourself a target date (Christmas morning)

Up lets you instantly create Savers for all kinds of savings goals. Give yours a name and add a helpful emoji to easily identify it. Then, set a target dollar amount, so you’ll know when the finish line is in view. It’s simple, it’s pretty and it’s ready in seconds.

Create a few more. With an Up account, you can save for fully dozens of things. That ridiculously soft hoodie for winter. A car. Winning the best friend birthday gift giving competition. A sweet toastie maker for the house. Naming a star after your cat. Anything is possible.

At Up, we’re excited about every savings goal. So, let’s get going. Your Savers are set up – now it’s time to get actual money in there.

Take the pain out of letting go

You’ve been paid. That beautiful money’s just sitting in your account, waiting to buy literally anything other than the thing you’re saving for. Transfer it over. Go on. Put in savings. Take your shiny cash and put it away so you can’t have it.

It hurts, hey.

Save on auto-pilot with Pay Splitting
Learn more about Pay Splitting

We reckon one of the hardest things about saving is actually that step of moving the money across. That’s why we’ve got Split Payments, so you can divvy up your pay before you have a chance to spend it.

When you get paid, head to the Payments tab and identify the transaction as pay or salary. Once that’s done, you can enable Split Payments and start moving your income around before you even see it.

Use the sliders to set how much of your pay should go where. Pop, say, 10% into each of your Savers. Leave 50% in your account for bills. Fling 5% into a new Saver for leisure activities. Because it’s percentage-based, even if you’ve only had a few shifts that fortnight, you’ll know a small amount is headed straight for your goal. No more heartache. Heaps more savings.

It’s a mindset shift, too. Moving funds before you have a chance to miss them helps change your thinking and feel good about it. A gift for Future You, you legend.

Round up your spare change

In the old days, twenty cents would snag you a whole bag of corner shop lollies. Can you even buy anything for less than a dollar now? (No, you can’t.)

Turn Your Cents Into Centuries
Learn more about Round Ups

Make your spare change work harder by automatically putting it away. It’s called a Round Up. When active, every time you make a purchase, the transaction will be rounded up to the nearest dollar and sent to the Saver of your choice. Buy something for $5.63 and 37 cents goes to savings. Spend $11.25 and 75 cents goes to savings.

You can push it even harder with a Boosted Round Up – a bit extra that’s added to the automatic transfer. All of these small additional deposits join the growing buds of savings you’ve already got. And because it’s automatic, you’ll hardly know they were ever there.

Plus, if you meet a few conditions, you’ll earn bonus interest on your Saver balances.

Keep track of where everything’s going
Keep Your Budget Balanced
Learn more about Covers & Forwards

With all this money moving around, we know it needs to be easy to stay on top of what’s going where. That’s why we created covers and forwards. Every time you get a notification that money’s come in or gone out, you’ve got the option to pull money from a Saver pool or throw it back in there.

Say you’re saving for your sister’s Christmas present. When you tap your phone or card to buy it, the money comes out of your regular account but it’s still sitting in your ‘🎁 Gift for Sarah!’ Saver. Long press on the notification and choose to Cover that cash using your savings. Done! Goal reached.

Or maybe you were shouting a mate. The money’s come out of your Saver and you want to make sure it goes back in (and doesn’t end up in a 2am kebab). As soon as you get paid back, use the Forward feature to shoot it back across and stay on track.

Do it for everything! Pull money to cover a spontaneous night out. Forward your housemates’ share of the rent. Keep everything flowing in the right direction and just feel really smug about how organised you are.

Grab a little emotional boost while you’re at it

OK. You’ve got your goals. You’ve got money going to your Savers. You’ve found the Saver Pools and spent an afternoon pretending to be Scrooge McDuck.

But it can still be a slog sometimes. Feels good in the beginning, but after a while it can start to feel like depriving yourself of fun stuff for a goal that seems so. far. away. That’s normal.

A bit of positive reinforcement keeps the momentum going. We’re so excited when Upsiders hit savings milestones. As you smash your goal, we’ll send you notifications to celebrate.

And we’ll have our own little chair dance in the office, too. Because, more than anything, we love to see you reach your goals.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Savers, Insights, Pay Splitting, Covers, Forwards

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up is Open for Business with Open Banking

Up has been certified for Open Banking. This means you can now safely share your Up data with certified third party apps, like budgeting platforms or loan providers.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_how-to-stop-impulse-spending_.txt ===

How to stop impulse spending

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting, Saving

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Sometimes the things people say are easy, are anything but.

A bit like meal prepping on Sunday, cleaning the sink, or cutting down on your TikTok hours, ‘just’ cutting down on impulse spending can actually feel super hard. Some of us have lifelong overspending habits, mental health stuff that gets in the way, or just plain struggle with saving.

Let’s stop pretending that saving money is simple all the time. But there are some little things you can do, that can start moving your spending and saving dial closer to chill.

In this blog:
Don’t actually stop!
Picking one big wish and keeping the rest close
Locking some Savers
Replacing that happiness hit
Hiding money!
Getting in touch with your mental health, and
Recruiting your mates for shared success.
1. Step one. Don’t stop impulse spending.

Wait, what?

Yeah you heard us. Going directly from weekly shopping hauls into a ‘no buy year’ (eek) might be great for influencers’ view counts, but it’s just not realistic. We’re human, and humans like their little treats.

What are some of the things you spend money on regularly, that truly brighten your day?

For some of us at Up that’s a super nice coffee, every day. For others, a cheeky visit to the Bunnings plant racks every so often is the real deal – and maybe that $1 Slurpee habit isn’t a bad choice in the scheme of things, so let’s chill out and enjoy it.

You can formalise this Plan For Treats with a splurgey Saver. Add a scheduled transfer every payday, enough to cover these treats, and you’ve just given your brain something real to focus on, look forward to, and completely enjoy.

Pick one dream that’s real

If you’ve spent any time on the socials lately, you’d be excused for thinking the whole population of Australia (except you, ugh) was cruising around the gelateria in Rome. Turn off that feed, look around in the reals and yep, most of us are still here working the day job and chilling at the park, not the piazzo.

And actually we’re doing just fine.

The race to match other people is real, and it’s enough to give The Dude anxiety. So let’s shift focus. Money goals only make sense when they’re yours. Instead of travel, would your soul be happier with a someday couch or cat of your own?

Maybe when that “Kitten Time” Saver is set up, it’ll be easier to say yes to the best and nah to the rest.

Lock It Up

Two second success time: chuck a lock on those Savers.

Locks on Savers can be removed, but that takes three hours. So if you wander past a record shop and see a vintage Bowie vinyl you Absolutely Need, you can have it! But you have to wait just long enough to remember about that cat from step two.

Think about its little eyes. How warm it would be purring away on your lap. Aww. Maybe that record isn’t as much of a must have as you thought all of a sudden.

Maybuy the rest, or Maybuy not

Of course you love that feeling of checking out with a full cart. We all do. The shopping experience is literally designed to feel that way, right down to the last pixel. So why beat yourself up about loving it – when you can just replace it?

Maybuy is designed to give you all the joy of checkout, without signing future you up for a bunch of credit card or BNPL debt. Curate the things you want by hitting the share button in your mobile browser and tapping the option for Up. You can make wishlists to your heart’s content, shuffle around what you’re saving for and when, and just all around keep an eye on your daydreams.

(Psst: you might be shocked at how many things lose their shine after the first dopamine hit’s done with.)

Stop, it’s check in time. You just made a Saver for something you absolutely want, a Saver for lil’ treats, and chucked the rest of your wants into a Maybuy wishlist to think about later. You’ve locked up money you care about so you can’t get at it even in a weak moment (which we all have from time to time) <3

Massive congrats - that’s so huge! Your heart and brain can focus lovingly on the things you really want… while Up makes the rest of your money disappear.

Disappear the Stressy Stuff

Well, we won’t actually take your money, promise. But what we can do is remove the money that you need for bills and other grown up bulldust, from your visual feed.

If that sounds good, first, tell Up your Payday. Next, whenever you pay a bill, mark it as a Regular. Third, switch your balance to ‘Spendable’.

Up will only show you the money that will be left over after bills, so when your brain’s in a spending mood it won’t see the rent money and think it’s good to go on the tab for Happy Hour.

Feel Your Feelings

A really good day that ‘calls for’ champers and cheese; a really bad day that ‘needs’ a bout of clothes shopping. (A few drinks that make cat money seem less important.)

Our emotional state can massively impact how we spend and save, and at a deeper level, understanding where you’re at with your mental health can be the difference between living in debt and worry, and feeling like your money is totally sorted.

This post by Upsider Ollie about managing ADHD goes into detail about their custom built Up system, and shows just how massive an impact things like ADHD, but also depression, bipolar and other conditions can have on your finances, as well as your day to day life.

Knowing your own health and happiness – and how they impact what you do with money – can be a head start on designing your own Up setup so your banking works with you, not against you.

Unsub, delete, and mute.

OK, this one is a bit lighter, promise.

Time to make a cuppa, raid the Scotch Finger packet, and settle in with your phone for some quality unfollow time. Let’s rejig what’s coming at you every day, in your email, your socials, and even your group chats. We’re going to bet that some of it just makes you feel lousy.

While you’re at it, consider deleting any spending or social apps you struggle with. If you really need them, you can install them again. We have the technology, yeah? But you do not need them beeping at you about Friday night ‘specials’ when you have all the stuff to make spag bol right there in the fridge.

Caveat – you just can’t go on the internet, or in the world for that matter, without people showing you stuff you need. It’s not possible. But building up a habit of regularly saying ‘no’ to bad inputs in your good day, can be real power.

Recruit your mates

Speaking of being in the world, humans need each other.

If your mates are the kinds of legends who’ll be there for you, can you talk to them about that kitten dream? Maybe one or more of them will be up to spot you in a Save Up 1000 challenge, or hype you up to keep your Locked Saver locked. If they’re a really, bestest of the best kind of mate, there’s even 2Up – a place where you can save together for something you both want. You could get on that savings hype train together, and both get festival tickets this summer.

(And if they’re more the kind of crew that will give you sh*t for wearing last year’s kicks, maybe it’s time to update your mates instead. Just saying.)

Forget and forgive

Last of all, friends. Know that we’ve all been there. We’ve all forgotten about the gas bill and spent money we should have kept. We’ve all bought something that didn’t fit, that sat in a ‘to be returned’ pile till it was too late. This is completely regular human stuff, and just putting these tricks into play won’t make you immune.

So if you do get tempted and give in to a little spending?

Be kind to yourself, and start again tomorrow. We’re here if you want to chat about it – hit us up in Talk To Us. We’re always keen to compare Maybuy wishlists and which Bowie album is worth having on vinyl (all of them obviously, it just depends on how many kittens you need as well).

Stay well and do what’s best for you –

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Impulse Spending, Mental health

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

From the 'Hi Mum' text to shady Marketplace buys, scams are on the rise across Australia. Here’s how – together – we can keep your dollars safe. May the power protect you.

Up

Nov 03, 2022

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_how-to-up_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

How to Up

Level Up your skills with these tips, tricks and tutorials from the creators of Up.

Back to Blog

UpYear 2024 has landed!

We’re ready for launch. Blast off on a journey through your 2024 spending & saving habits with UpYear.

Up

Dec 09, 2024

UpYear is Here!

Let’s wrap up your 2023. Get your Spending and Saving insights from the other side.

Up

Dec 19, 2023

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2022

Up

Dec 13, 2022

Custom Spending Insights

Noticed a new taste of rainbow in your Up feed? We’ve tuned up Insights so they can turn at your speed. Engineer María Acuña lays out what’s changing.

Maria

Dec 01, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

From the 'Hi Mum' text to shady Marketplace buys, scams are on the rise across Australia. Here’s how – together – we can keep your dollars safe. May the power protect you.

Up

Nov 03, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_how-to-up_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

How to Up

Level Up your skills with these tips, tricks and tutorials from the creators of Up.

Back to Blog

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2021

Up

Dec 14, 2021

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Ready, but not really ready (eek!) to share money? Ash and Nathan used 2Up to restart their financial lives; this time in co-op mode.

Nathan and Ash

Nov 30, 2021

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_how-to-up_pages_3_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

How to Up

Level Up your skills with these tips, tricks and tutorials from the creators of Up.

Back to Blog

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

Don't let Owed Money Tension get you down. When the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you need it, you can now request money from your mates on Up.

Up

Feb 15, 2021

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

UpYear Is Here! Let's Wrap Up Your 2020

Finish the year strong. Starting today take a trip down memory lane and get your personalised spending and saving review of 2020.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_how-to-up_pages_4_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

How to Up

Level Up your skills with these tips, tricks and tutorials from the creators of Up.

Back to Blog

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

The Round Ups Round-up

Having now made over 250,000 round ups we take a nerdy dive into the data we've seen, including the most common cents amounts on purchases and our plans for the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 28, 2019

Who are our Upsiders?

With Up flying past 30,000 customers within a few months of launch, we thought we'd introduce a few faces who are enjoying life on the Upside.

Up

Feb 13, 2019

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018

=== blog_i-os-widgets_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

iOS widgets
Back to Blog

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

=== blog_i-os_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

iOS
Back to Blog

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

=== blog_impulse-spending_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Impulse Spending
Back to Blog

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

=== blog_innovation_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Innovation
Back to Blog

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_innovation_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Innovation
Back to Blog

Rebooting Banking

Our journey began with a simple question: what could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

Anson Parker

Oct 31, 2018

=== blog_insights_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Insights
Back to Blog

UpYear 2024 has landed!

We’re ready for launch. Blast off on a journey through your 2024 spending & saving habits with UpYear.

Up

Dec 09, 2024

UpYear is Here!

Let’s wrap up your 2023. Get your Spending and Saving insights from the other side.

Up

Dec 19, 2023

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2022

Up

Dec 13, 2022

Custom Spending Insights

Noticed a new taste of rainbow in your Up feed? We’ve tuned up Insights so they can turn at your speed. Engineer María Acuña lays out what’s changing.

Maria

Dec 01, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2021

Up

Dec 14, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021

UpYear Is Here! Let's Wrap Up Your 2020

Finish the year strong. Starting today take a trip down memory lane and get your personalised spending and saving review of 2020.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_insights_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Insights
Back to Blog

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

We’re excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

Anson Parker

Jun 12, 2019

=== blog_international-payments_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

International Payments
Back to Blog

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

=== blog_introducing-payment-requests_.txt ===

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

How to Up

Your mate still owes you their share from dinner last week but they keep forgetting to pay you back – or maybe they’re just not getting around to it. Who knows? You feel awkward bringing it up, so you don’t. But then two days later you see they’re partying in Byron Bay, splashing selfies all over Instagram. What!?

You’ve just experienced "Owed Money Tension" (OMT). OMT describes those bad vibes simmering just under the surface in your group of mates that, left unchecked, can turn friendships sour and even cause long-lasting resentment.

You don’t want that. Nobody does. So when the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you want it, it might just be time to call in the professionals...

Introducing Request Money

Starting today, you can now request money from other Upsiders. Don’t sit around wondering when you’ll get repaid — put in a request and get paid the money you’re owed quickly and painlessly.

In any payment thread with another Upsider you’ll now find a “request” button at the bottom of the screen. Tap it, enter an amount and message and we’ll do the rest.

You can also make a new request by tapping the plus button in the payments screen.

Once your request is accepted, the money will instantly appear in your Up account. 24/7. No overnight delays. No closed-for-the-weekend weirdness.

What if I’m the one being requested from?

You’ll be immediately notified of any requests for money. Just tap the notification, accept the request (or knock it back if it doesn’t look right) with an optional message and boom, everybody’s happy. Especially your mate.

What if I don’t know the requester?

You can decline any request you don’t agree with or don’t recognise. Getting repeatedly hassled for money you don’t owe? Bring out the Block hammer and stop that Upsider from sending you any more requests.

What if I want to request money from someone not on Up?

If your mates aren’t on Up, now is the perfect time to reach out to them. Head to Hook Up a Mate in the app or the HUAM website for full details.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Request money, Payment Requests, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_joint-accounts_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Joint accounts
Back to Blog

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

=== blog_launch_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Launch
Back to Blog

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019

=== blog_level-up-for-2021_.txt ===

Level Up for 2021

How to Up, Saving, Spending and Budgeting

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system, the path is laid out.

What level Upsider are you now? And how will you level up in 2021?

Level 1. The Savings Enthusiast

Maybe you're a totally new Upsider. Welcome! Or maybe you’ve just been using Up for the melted highlighter card and easy payments.

But let’s take off those training wheels. It only takes a minute or two to set up some brand new financial habits.

Stack some Savers

Up gives you heaps of Savers - accounts that you can create yourself right from the app. We think it feels better to break down your goals and visualise what you're saving for, than just try to grow one big lump sum.

To make your first Saver, hit the ‘plus’ button on the Saver tab. Name your first account, give it a goal, give it an emoji 🎸

Then play around: you can organise Savers in whatever way makes your soul happy. By emoji colour, by due date. Autobiographically?

Up has changed my relationship with my money. I feel so much more in control... it’s helped me switch from using credit to buy things, to using small savers. I’m saving more, spending less, and feeling happier.
- taybenlor, via Apple App Store
Round Up your Round Ups

Round Ups automatically save the change left over when you buy things that don't cost a full dollar. You get to choose which Saver they go into so if you're trying to put together your first emergency fund, hit the ‘Round Ups’ button in the middle of your 'In Case of Fire 🧯' Saver screen.

Little bits of money can now add up to something that matters a lot.

Start a Savings Habit

Speaking of goals. When new Upsiders join us, we send out a 'Save Up' Card with a “$1000-in-a-year” Saver challenge. If you've used yours up or feel like a challenge, you can download a copy any time you like, and get saving.

We're no interior decorators, but we reckon they’d make a very striking tiled wallpaper.

Level 2: The Automator

Savers mapped out, goals in place? You’re ready for the next level. Let’s get your pay cycle purring like a Honda Six with Pay Splitting; shift the mental load with Scheduled Payments; and master the smooth financial moonwalk called Covers and Forwards.

Create some Pay Splits

Pay Splits are one of Up's most powerful, but also kinda secret features. If you get paid into your Up account, or transfer yourself a regular amount from another account, you can automatically split that money into your Savers as soon as it arrives.

Automatically splitting and saving your pay, before you spend it, can be a great way of sticking to a budget and keeping your goals on track so you can afford the stuff you need, the things you want, and the dreams you dream 💜

Head to the Payments tab, find a salary payment, and tell us that money is your pay. From there, tap the name of the account to set up Pay Splitting and tell us how you’d like it split and saved - we’ll take care of it from there.

(If you have more than one source of income, you’ll need to do this for each place you’re paid from.)

Very easy to track my money, and now I'm finally saving some - they make it so easy. I even created a trip savings goal and it's so satisfying watching the meter fill up each pay when it automatically puts a percentage in there.
- Kym, via Google Play
Set a Schedule

There’s no escaping rent (ugh), but you can escape having to remember what day to pay. Now that you’ve got a Saver for rent - and automatic payments to fill it - the last step is telling Up to pay rent when it's due.

It's a two-step dance, but the moves are smooth.

First, set up an auto-transfer from your Saver into your Spending account. Head to your Savers and set up an Auto Transfer to happen just before rent's due. You can even pick a time.

Second, send that rent from Spending to Landlord Town. Head over to the ‘payments’ tab, and plug in the details to pay your rent. But don't hit send - pick 'options'. You can set up a date and time - say, a moment after that first Auto Transfer will arrive - and tell our Up Bots to repeat the whole dance for you, as often as you need.

Cover, then Forward. Forward, then Cover

Covers and Forwards are our ultimate budget balancer. Every time money moves in or out of your account, we’ll notify you. Long press the notification or item in your activity feed to ‘cover’ a purchase money sitting in a Saver, or ‘forward’ money that has just arrived into one.

Seasoned Upsiders tend to keep most of their money in Savers, except for a buffer or float in their spending account. That buffer means there’s always a bit of cash ready at the checkout. They then cover their purchases from the right Saver so they know how much they have left for that type of thing until they get paid again.

Level 3: Boss Level

Woah, you’re ready. You’re a master of Savers, and you’ve set cruise control on money in and out of your account 🏎

Time to really make Up yours with tags; save harder than ever; and maybe even build on Up using our custom API.

DIY Tags

Up comes readymade with a deep and intuitive set of spending insights: we’ll show you what you spend at different retailers, and whether you spend more on home improvements or bike upgrades. But if you’re ready, take it a level higher with customisations.

Say you’ve got a new project: building a bike shed. You have a budget, so you want to track what you’re spending. But some charges will look like home costs - some like hobby costs. How can you know what the whole project is costing? By creating a custom tag for “My Glorious House of Bikes”, that’s how.

Open a payment and hit ‘Add tags’ to get started. Once you've created a tag, it'll be available to select on any future purchases.

To see how much you spent against a particular tag, head to your monthly insights screen by tapping a month header. You’ll get a neat summary of how much it really cost to build that bike shed. Ding ding.

I love this new banking situation! It helps me stay organised… and I'm actually saving money. Keeps track of your weekly and monthly spending so you understand your outgoings a bit better and can stay on top of things. SO OBSESSED.
- Catie, via Google Play
Set Save to Hard Mode

Ready to play in the Saver big leagues? Boost your round ups to pump more $$$ towards your savings goals and get there faster. A rare few Upsiders even boost to $10 a purchase: we bow our heads.

Build It Yourself

Got some developer chops? We’ve opened up our API for personal use, so grab your token and get building. Some have used our insights to build screen widgets: others have made personal alarms to make sure they keep a snack habit in check.

What will you create?

Happy Upping

However you use Up, just by using it for your everyday spending and saving you'll have more visibility across all of your hard earned. We’re into it, and we’re cheering for you.

From all of us, at Up.

Please remember that Up does not provide financial advice, this is general advice. Up has not taken into account your personal objectives, financial situation or needs. You should consider the Up terms before making a decision to use Up. The information on this website is for general information only.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: New Year Challenge 2021, Round Ups, Pay Splitting, Spending insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

UpYear Is Here! Let's Wrap Up Your 2020

Finish the year strong. Starting today take a trip down memory lane and get your personalised spending and saving review of 2020.

Up

Dec 17, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_level-up-your-money-quick_.txt ===

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

How to Up

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

At Up, we love talking about money. Like, we want to get a room with budgeting. We wanna throw on some smooth jazz and show the Dow Index a good time.

But we also get that money talk isn’t real sexy for like, pretty much anyone else. ‘Hey cutie, wanna set up a joint budget and cash flow some fun?’ might work on some but we’ve tried it at the pub and our strike rate’s less than stellar.

Since we’re built different, we’ve made it our mission to build simple stuff that brings you closer to zen, without the work.

So if you’ve ever flirted across the room at ‘having money left the day before payday’, but never got up the courage to say hello, here’s 7 super quick ways you can use Up to level up, easy.

1. Decide what you want

First things first: close your eyes for a moment and dream a little dream. If your saving and spending style feels like it needs some direction or you’re constantly comparing what you’re doing to other people? You can go a long way to fixing that, by setting an intention for your money that actually meets you where you’re at.

Saving for a big Europe trip might be a perfect goal for you right now… but also? Maybe it’s not. Maybe this year it’s more important to pick one summer festival to save for and just live life with everything else. Either way, blowing cash on things that don’t matter probably won’t feel good for long – and neither will watching people who are making different choices.

Money goals only make sense when they’re true to you. Have a think about what your intention is.

2. Hand over Your Pay(Day)

When you tell Up your Payday, you get help with the mental load of ‘how much can I spend on snacks?’.

Once we know your payday, it’s easy street. Just tap bills and mark them as Regulars. We’ll do the maths on “what you earn versus what you have to spend on boring stuff like rent”. ‘What does that get me’, we hear you ask? Oh, so much: you can switch your balance view to ‘Spendable’ and only see money you can safely spend on Ben and Jerry’s. It’s Triple Caramel Chunk Banking Bliss.

If you’ve got a whole five minutes, why not email your boss or HR with your Up account details and start getting paid into Up? Tap to copy your deets from the Activity tab.

If you have even less time, or if you want to keep accounts at multiple banks (no stress, we’re happy to be your side bank 😉), just set up a regular transfer from Your Other Bank into Up. When it arrives you can mark it as your pay. We won’t ask awkward questions.

Map Out And Nail Your Money Goals With Savers
Learn more about Savers
3. Make your own fun

Ahem, the Save Up $1000 challenge, ahem. Making a bit of a game out of your biggest goal gives your brain a real substitute for that spending hit you’d otherwise crave. Is there one you could start today?

Maybe the Save Up $1000 is perfect. But you can also choose your own adventure with a automagical regular Maybuy save, or a totally custom Saver complete with a goal amount and ✈️ emoji.

So many options, pick the one that’s right for your own dream! ‘Making saving fun’ is a lot easier on the psyche than just thinking about what you’re not buying – and you’re way more likely to stick with it.

4. Now lock that Saver

Locked Savers are a sweet sprinkle of Up magic that stick a three hour barrier in between your festival savings and that really nice jacket that’s on sale today only.

You can change your mind and unlock your Saver. (Sometimes jackets are worth it). You just have to wait a bit and have a little think first, and that can make all the difference. Pick a mate to be your accountability buddy or run this race on your own, it’s all up to you.

So if you’re an impulse spender, get in a few easy reps at the bench of prioritising your dreams, by chucking a quick lock on some savings you care about.

Turn Your Cents Into Centuries
Learn more about Round Ups
5. Add a shot of passive savings

Picture this: you open your Up account and your summer savings balance is $20 higher than yesterday without you even realising. Gasp! What is this sorcery? Two words: Round Ups. With Boost. Okay, four words.

But did you know, not only can you round your transactions up to the nearest dollar and send the difference to savings – you can boost every round up by $1 - $10 to juice up your chosen saver faster?! When you set your Round Up preferences in the Up app, you’ll get an estimate of how much you’ll save each month. Tap on that favoured Saver to get started.

6. Save now, buy later

Yep, you read that right. We’re all about delayed gratification here at Up. We reckon it’s cool to save up for things and then buy them. Call us old souls, but by building things you’re saving for into your budget, you can stay on track with your goals and still have what you want.

With MayBuy, you can create a saver specifically for an item you’re saving for, and set a savings plan and a duration that works for your budget. So take a minute to go find that new bike you want on the net, hit Share, and pick Up to share it to.

Now kick back, throw on some ABBA, and save up for stuff the old fashioned way.

7. Win at the Track

All your spending on Up gets automatically categorised into a category, like ‘Takeaway’, ‘Groceries’, or ‘Hobbies’. And any category can be Tracked.

So if you’d like to set a bit of a limit on the Maccas runs, chuck on a Takeaway Tracker and we’ll help you keep tabs on your spending through the month. You’ll get progress notifications, and you can even track where you’re at every day with a Tracker Widget or at a glance on your Apple Watch.

Trackers are easy-as to set up. In your Activity tab, tap on any month header, then the category and subcategory you’d like to Track. Tell us how much you really want to spend and we’ll work together on getting your spending in shape. Sorted.

Cruise Control: Set

We hope you’ve found something in here you can kick off today. You don’t have to watch the markets every morning to be a whiz with money: just start up some Up flavoured cruise controls.

(So if you see us in the pub, striking out, no you didn’t – ta).

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Savings Goals, Maybuy, Savers, Round ups

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_lightbox_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Lightbox
Back to Blog

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

=== blog_lock-it-up_.txt ===

Lock it Up!

Building Up, Staying Safe

We are building Up to have some of the highest levels of security in the industry while at the same time working to make banking more accessible than it’s ever been. Most banks force their customers to log in any time they open their apps, regardless of whether they’re sending money or simply want to view the details of a transaction. This creates a barrier that gets in the way of people connecting to where their money goes.

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Step-up Authentication

Up takes a different approach to security using a model called step-up authentication. Put simply, we only require our customers enter their passcode (or use biometrics like fingerprints or facial recognition) when they’re doing something sensitive like making a payment or updating their mailing address. For common tasks like viewing spending history or checking their balance we can sensibly rely on their phone’s existing security measures to keep their data private.

For some customers this may take a little getting used to, but we think most will come around to our point of view (in fact, most banks have already started moving in this direction with a “quick balance” feature that doesn’t require a customer log in).

It’s worth noting that for those completely opposed to this approach Up can be configured to require a passcode every time it’s opened. But for those open to the idea we’d make this case: we think there’s a useful line that can be drawn between privacy and security. Privacy is mostly about keeping your personal or sensitive information away from others (like your account balance, savings total or salary). Security (in this context) is largely about keeping your money safe – preventing people from sending money out of your account, or withdrawing your money from an ATM.

Today’s smartphones are doing a good job of ensuring people’s data and apps remain private (just ask the FBI!). When your phone isn’t in your pocket or purse, it’s usually on the table next to you. We also see passcodes and biometrics are now nearing universal use. The time is right to reduce the need for banking apps to specifically guard against privacy. We can instead focus on upholding your security while helping you with more understanding and access to your financial activity.

As a final exercise, think about the common apps you use on your smartphone that don’t require you log in to use them – your email, calendar, photos, notes and most social media apps. If you didn’t realise you were trusting your phone to keep your private life private, hopefully you do now!

So perhaps, then, it’s most appropriate to close with some tips on how to best keep your phone and its contents secure.

Shore up your smartphone security
Lock your phone with a passcode. Make it 6-digits and non-obvious. Yes, there are still people out there that operate with their phones completely unlocked. Those people are climbing a cliff face without a safety rope – sure, everything’s great right now – just don’t slip. Like. Ever.
Embrace the cloud. On both Android and iPhone you can now have your phone completely backup to the cloud and if the need ever arises, remotely wipe it. So if your phone gets stolen you’ll still be out of pocket the price of a new phone, but your phone’s contents will remain secure and you can be up and running with a new phone restored from your backup. Both Android and iPhone do require a little bit of work to set-up, but it’s well worth the effort.
You’re done. Honestly, that’s really all there is to it. You’ve now got no excuse!

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Security, Authentication

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_locked-savers-savings-self-defence_.txt ===

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Building Up, Saving, Spending and Budgeting

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Up’s always on the lookout for ways to help Upsiders reduce the stress and anxiety around money.

We’re all only human, and it can be hard to resist our own impulses at times – especially when it comes to buying things we want. Or rather, the things we think we want in the moment. We’ve all splurged on something good, and later realised – with a sinking heart – that we’d meant to use that money for something else.

This is actually one of the reasons we released Maybuy, a savings-based alternative to Buy Now Pay Later that gives you the ability to change your mind at any time.

We wanted to go one step further down this path though. So today, we’re releasing one of the features that’s been among the most requested since it first appeared on the Tree of Up: Locked Savers.

Upsiders were keen for a way to lock up their money! We wanted to deliver, but not without properly interrogating the psychology that sits behind saving. We also faced an interesting challenge: on the one hand, a lock that can be too easily unlocked is a pointless feature; on the other hand there’d be times when Upsiders really did need to get access to their money quickly, and we’d need to provide a way to do that.

Here’s what we came up with:

Set up a Saver and put some money in there. Maybe you already have one, like ‘☔️ Rainy Day’.
Now lock it down – well, really it’s more like adding a delay to access it. That is, a 3-hour long self imposed delay. If you choose to unlock it, this means you get ample time to reconsider spending the money – or better yet just forget (and re-lock later).
If you’re in a super tight spot, a mate can have your back. You can choose a mate who’s on Up to hold the keys for immediate access at your request. (To do this you just pick your champion when initially locking the saver).
If your mate ignores your request (or misses it) and doesn’t unlock it for you, then you’ll need to wait the full 3 hours.
Once unlocked, your Saver is just a regular ol’ Saver again. You’ll be able to access the money and transfer it into your Up or 2Up spending account to use.
Why do this to yourself?

‘Why would I torture myself like that!?’ you ask. ‘Shouldn’t I just use self control?’

It’s a valid question! Many might argue that ultimately willpower determines success when saving is involved.

The design thinking for us is centred in the thought (based on solid research, with roots in behavioural psychology) that there’s far more to our habits, both the good and the bad, than simply willpower and determination. Both of those things come in limited supply, anyway.

A simplified summary of the 3 factors that make or break habits are:

Context - your environment
Motivation - how badly you want it
Ability - how capable you are of doing it

For example, it’d be really really easy to stick to an exercise routine if you were on holiday at a health retreat, surrounded by personal trainers (context), having just had a health scare (motivation), doing a program that’s just tough enough for you (ability). Real life, though, adds a whole lot of complexity.

It’s the same with saving. Hypothetically, sure, just save! But real life throws stuff at us all the time that we have to figure out, and that’s tiring.

So let’s flip those factors: what about disrupting them on an undesirable habit like impulsive spending?

Let’s say you’re saving for a trip to Europe next year and you’ve got a goal in mind for how much cash you’ll need. But you’re not in Europe. It’s not top of mind. It’s not your context.

Now your daily commute means passing a lot of shops: a different context. You spot some sneakers in the window: they’d look good on you (motivation)! Next thing you know the phone is out, the transfer is done and those savings are gone (ability). No! You meant to save that money, but the context, motivation and ability were so much closer to the shops here than the trip in a few months’ time.

Locked Savers is a circuit breaker here. First, when you go to get your money the lock is visible. You know instantly what the deal is – you’ve got a reminder there that the money is for plane fares, baguettes, and ouzo in the sun. But maybe you’re happy to progress? Ok now there’s 3 hours to reflect, do you still want them enough to come back for them later?

Will the urge stick? Maybe you’ll get to work or Uni, have time to remember that you could buy some amazing shoes in Europe, and lock down that money once more.

A savings goal (motivation) coupled with a visible lock (context) and some handy friction (ability) may be just the formula to break your auto-pilot and re-focus on what matters more.

This framework helped us feel confident, when designing the Locked Savers feature, that we could do something that was helpful but also grounded in an understanding of people (us included), and how we all really operate day-to-day.

PS: If you’re someone who genuinely is struggling with a form of addiction (i.e. gambling), we’d strongly recommend reaching out to a professional for help.

Add a mate for a sprinkling of extra Saver Flavour

‘Could it be even more though?’ we wondered, once we got this far 👆 in our thinking.

Up is a social place, a product that’s better with mates. That was top of mind for us when late last year we released our Slices feature for easily splitting bills with friends. Our view was, and still is, that money journeys should not be travelled alone, and we wanted to bring this feeling home with Locked Savers.

This led us to the idea of an accountability buddy and weaving that into the experience. It’s not a new concept, but it’s one generally reserved for the likes of fitness programs.

We know there are times when a mate has your back, but the best mates keep it real with you and help you to stay true to your own goals (be they financial or other ones).

Ultimately getting to a point where you feel good about money involves being open with the ones you trust, sharing your wins….and your struggles as well. So let’s remove the stigma and make money convos feel natural. You don’t have to add a mate to your Locked Saver when you set it up, but we’d encourage you to at least give it some thought. It could help you in better embedding those healthy saving habits.

Get locking

Locked Savers is live from today – just make sure you’re on the latest version of the app. One thing to keep in mind once you have locked your first Saver: you can keep adding money to it. You just can’t take it out, without following the steps outlined above.

As always, we’re really keen for feedback, so let us know how it’s working for you by dropping us a note through the Talk To Us tab in your app.

We think you’ll love that moment you lock that first saver, and our guru animators in house had a lot of fun refining the visuals and interactions for it.

A big thank you to the many Up customers, through their feedback, that helped us bring this feature to life.

Oh, one more thing

If you like the sound of how we approach thinking about our features, and have product design chops, then let us know! We’re hiring in our product design team at the moment and would love to chat.

Or, if you have a friend or colleague who you think might be an awesome fit, then send this blog post their way 🙏

Evan Simmonds

Tags: Locked Savers, Saving

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_locked-savers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Locked Savers
Back to Blog

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

=== blog_lockscreen-widgets_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Lockscreen widgets
Back to Blog

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

=== blog_making-it-rain_.txt ===

Making it rain!

How to Up

Remember when you were a kid, how much fun it was to go to a school fair and get the chance to dunk a teacher (or better yet the principal) in a dunking tank?

Designs for the pool were always slightly different. Lots of schools would have their PTA assembled dunk tank they'd cart out year after year.

You'd hand over some hard-earned pocket money for the chance to throw a beanbag at the trigger. If you were lucky enough to hit home they’d fall into the pool and get soaked.

The ice-bucket challenge was kinda similar in that it helped people raise enough money to convince themselves it was worth pouring a bucket of ice water over their heads.

There's something about being able to soak people that's satisfying to humans and importantly, they’re willing to pay for the privilege.

But what does this have to do with Up?

For ages, we've wanted to find a way for people to use Up to support causes that mattered to them. We're still working on it, but with two school aged kids and no school fairs in the near future, at a recent hack-day I set out to create a way for Australians to replicate the fun of the dunk tank from home.

To make it happen I combined a few things that don't often go together - banking and garden watering automation.

My challenge was to make it rain when people donated to a cause by sending money to my Upname or PayID.

How does it work?

I wanted the experience for a donor to be simple, so I started by making the digital equivalent of a piece of cardboard with "$1 per throw" written on it. As there wasn't really an element of chance (you couldn't miss), I hiked up my prices from the get go. A simple website told people where the money I raised would be donated, presented donors with a menu and gave them payment details. In retrospect, allowing 1 cent payments was not a good idea. In my case, I chose to donate it to my local primary school.

Both Up-to-Up and PayID payments are pretty much instant, so are perfect for this sort instant-gratification experiment. As soon as payments hit my Upname or PayID, the Up API and its Webhooks let my site know about the payment. The site then used the payment description and incoming name to add the donation to a queue of upcoming soakings.

Separately, I had a raspberry pi running a very simple ruby script polling for new donations every few seconds. If it found one waiting it would execute the soaking and mark that particular event complete, and pick up the next one. This would also update the website so you could see when it was your money causing it to rain or pour.

With the website ready and a webcam pointed at myself on a very cold winter's day I sat back and waited for people to donate.

Pretty much straight away people started making it rain.

Needless to say, I got very wet and very cold. Turns out donations over $50 involved a bucket of water full of ice-cubes which I was very much not expecting. It was worth it though.

So how'd it go?

All up I raised $205 in about 5 minutes from 50 people and that money has now been donated to the local primary school. I wondered whether people would donate more than once, and it turns out people were happy to part with their cash for continued pouring.

Most importantly though, doing all this made the team smile and gave them a laugh. I could only get screenshots of people who weren't muted, but seeing them light up made it all worthwhile.

As a future improvement, I’d love to have the website include a video clip of the victim being soaked with each particular donation, so you had something to treasure and share (which would hopefully pull in even more donors) - something like "I paid $2.50 to make it rain on $paul and here's the proof!"

But why?

Apart from the novelty value, I think there’s actually a whole lot of potential in the idea to raise money for various causes.

Tying a “reward” directly to a real-time bank transaction has never really been possible outside of using hard cash or paying for a credit card merchant. In Australia, at least, the tech just hasn't been available for non-businesses. Upsider payments, PayID, and the Up API makes all of this possible in very near real-time for normal people like you and I.

One of the things I really like is that the approach scales far further than any local school fair or fundraiser could, simply because you aren't limited by the number of people who can turn up on a given day.

I performed this demo to my fellow Ferocians and some close friends, but once you have things set up ready to go there’s nothing to stop you from doing multiple sessions to different groups of people, or even streaming live Australia-wide. From there, it’s just a question of who you invite to soak and who you invite to watch and donate. Imagine how much people would pay to soak various politicians or celebrities right now.

Want to try it?

This is most definitely not an official Up service. We're not ready to organise charity or fundraising payments yet, and everyone involved understood that the donations would go through my personal account as a kind of proof of concept before I sent them along to the school. That said, all the pieces you’d need to replicate this are available with a bit of gardening know-how, programming (and fundraising permits etc). If you have an idea for a collaboration get in touch. We'd love to hear from you.

Paul Tagell

Head of Marketing

@tagell

Tags: API, Hackday, Development, Webhooks

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_maybuy_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Maybuy
Back to Blog

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

=== blog_mental-health_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Mental health
Back to Blog

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

=== blog_merchants_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Merchants
Back to Blog

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Retro logos are the best logos.

Anthony Langhorne

Apr 01, 2020

=== blog_money-with-mates_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Money with mates
Back to Blog

2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here.

Up

May 15, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

=== blog_new-year-challenge-2021_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

New Year Challenge 2021
Back to Blog

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

=== blog_new-year-new-finances_.txt ===

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

How to Up, Saving, Spending and Budgeting, Upsider Stories

A fresh new year calls for a fresh new start. Call it a detox, call it a reboot. Whatever you call it, we’ve never needed it more than after the giant trash fire that was 2020.

So put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021. And you could get some of them sorted before the coffee’s done.

PS...If you're new around here, there's no time like now to try Up. Use the code JOINUP5 (conditions) and we’ll start you out with a free $5.

1. Close your eyes and make a wish.
I graduated this year and got my first job! I had my leavers trip coming up and was concerned whether I'd be able to save up enough. I opened a saver for it and it worked so well, I was proud of my work to be able to pay and sustain myself while I was away.
- Heleen

You know the dream, because it lives deep in your heart. The trip. The full sleeve. The foster doggo.

To really tell that goal you're coming for it, you can call it out in your Savers, and give it a goal and an emoji.

But why stop there? It’s your dream, go hard.

You could also spin up a widget for your home screen, and match a live visual of your Furdinand Saver to a pic of your dream doggo. Those big brown eyes will be there to remind you of your goal, every time you open your phone 🐶

2. Little wishes matter, too
Music is bliss but expensive when you're into vinyl. I set up a saver that moves money weekly, and without even realising it, the money's there, ready to be spent on shiny new records! The latest (will be after this weekend) Bowie Legacy, so imagine that beautiful lighting bolt of yours in red and blue 😉
- Seb

Seb, we are imagining it. We’re actually having a little Bowie-shaped daydream over here and he says hello from Mars.

Having a little cash just for treats makes everyday life brighter. So once your critical Savers are taken care of, why not consider keeping a littler one stocked with change you can spend?

You’ll never have to think again about whether you can grab a sneaky Snickers. If the money’s there, it’s all yours.

3. Start an emergency fund today.
The first thing I did when I downloaded the app was create and fill an emergency account. Less than a month later I found out I was at risk of losing my ovaries and being unable to have kids. When they asked how I planned on paying for all the appointments, scans, therapies and surgeries, I felt empowered knowing my rainy-day fund was full!
- Clare

If 2020 taught us anything, it’s that life is what gut punches us when we’re busy making other plans.

Want to share Clare’s peace of mind? Kick off an emergency Saver today. You might never need it. But you might also sleep better knowing it’s there.

4. Get ahead of payday.
Early in 2020 I quit my job to freelance. I started structuring my savers as 'months' of runway. I've got November, December, January, etc. Now I feel comfortable that I've always got money for at least this month and next month. Then I just have to do work to fill up the month after that (or more). Now I'm a few months ahead I feel much more stable than I did when I had a salary! It's been nice decoupling my income from my living expenses.
- Ben

Ben’s got an unusual way to use Savers and we 👏 love 👏it 👏.

The beauty of Savers is that they’re yours to design. Ben’s figured out how much he needs for the month ahead - Up’s insights can help with that, too! - and little by little, he’s earning freedom from payday stress.

Is a month too massive? Try getting one week ahead of your spending, and give yourself time to get there. A buck or ten at a time, whatever you can punt into a payday Saver adds up. Add one more week, and one more… and you see where this is going.

When next December rolls around, you could be richer in both dollars and serenity 😎

5. Clean up casual cash
As an actress with a fluctuating income, being able to easily categorise everything without spending hours on it has just made the world of difference. I feel like before I joined Up I barely looked at my account, I was afraid of what I would see (probably more accurately what I wouldn't see) and that fear kept me in the dark.
- Paige

Casual income can spell stress. Have you been paid? Do you have to (ugh) hassle someone? Is it instant noodles for dinner tonight?

But Paige is floating on a calm sea of well organised info. A few minutes of setup and you can be too, no matter how many jobs you’re juggling.

First, Up will notify you instantly when you’ve been paid - and who paid you.

Then, you can mark those payments as salary and use Pay Splitting to tell us how you'd like the money stored. Our robots will remember and tuck away money for bills, travel, and spending - all before you wake to tread the boards once more.

6. Kill credit with kindness
Up helped me pay off my credit card with another bank! I could see my goal so paying it off became a challenge rather than a task. I've been able to save like I never have before by being able to allocate my money, which when Covid hit and stole my job for 7 months came in super helpful!
- Nicole

Seeing that you’re in the red can make you feel somehow less than the shiny human you are. Give yourself a hug, because to us you are perfect 💜

Then let’s get solving.

Nicole set up positive Saver goals for her credit payments, and that's what she keeps in touch with. Because goals are for 🏅winners 🏅 and bad vibes can get in the bin.

Bonus tip: if you need to pay off fees every week or month, you can automate payments on those bad boys and use your brain space for nicer stuff.

7. Make it yours, and make it fun.
I set fun interactive goals, I am saving for a MacBook and a house and I tell you what throwing the little digital laptop around keeps me super entertained and I love watching the little dollars pile up.
- Abbey

We deliberately build Up to be a little bit like a game, because a) we’re a team that spends a great deal of time on Mario Kart and b) we reckon the more time you spend choosing the perfect Upname, building out dream Savers, and playing with your Saver Pools, the more you’ll engage with your money.

We’re pretty sure that you'll find your own way to customise Up, that brings a song to your heart and your dreams one step closer.

8. Line up your spending - and saving - with your values.
The fact I learned that I spend more money at pubs and bars than I do on rent made me laugh…
- Dave

We don’t know if learning that also made Dave cry, and that’s cool - cause it’s nobody’s business but Dave’s.

Do you want to knuckle down for tomorrow, enjoy the moment, or balance the two? There’s no right answer, except the one that’s yours. Up gives you a world of insights, so why not take the time to consider whether the money you're spending now matches your values.

You can start with the core 4 categories Up shows you: Good Life, Personal, Home and Transport. From there you can dig down and see how much you’re spending on Maccas, the local cafe, or the local.

Then you can make some calls. The stuff you value least is going to be easier to cut from your budget. Trying to save, but music is life? Walking instead of driving might hurt way less than missing out on tickets.

9. Redirect your Round Ups
Auto-round ups made the Christmas present $$$ stress so much less this year! I created a Presents saver with a goal of $800, enabled auto-round ups (+$1 extra) and hit that goal before the Black Friday/Cyber Monday sales. So I have all my presents sorted earlier than ever, and I'm not feeling the post-present purchase stress!
- Jessy

Did this holiday season hurt you? Show the next one who’s boss. Or pick anything else that’s giving you money worries, and point those round ups in its direction.

Round ups kick the ‘price’ of each purchase you make up to the nearest dollar, and send the difference into the Saver of your choice. Boost for extra glory - you can customise the Round Ups amount anywhere up to ten bucks a pop. Jessy picked a buck, enough to get her just where she needed to be.

10. Stack your Savers for real life.
Just this month I was experiencing some money stress because of car insurance (like seriously, why is it so expensive?). BUT earlier this year I put away a grand into a special rego/insurance saver which saved my ass. So, cheers, past Ethan, we couldn't have made it without ya.
- Ethan

Ethan’s living one of the most important personal finance rules: know your true expenses. It’s easy to forget bills that come around only once in a while, and they’re the ones that’ll whomp ya. But you can be ready.

So stare them down. Check your Insights - especially for last year’s big bills. What did you have to pay for last year, and is there a Saver stacked for it?

Set em up, knock em down. Ride on down the highway cowboy, cause that horse is paid for.

11. Don't need it? Don't pay for it.
The upcoming charges always saves me from the stress of constantly using free trials.
- Marcus

We love a good streaming service and chill. We freaking hate getting charged for something we don't use any more. It’s too easy to forget before the month rolls around again and takes yet another $12 out of our pockets 😡

Up learns about your regular charges and predicts when they'll come around again. Like Marcus, go find charges you don’t want: then get out your cancel hammer and go 🔨

12. And make a little room for change.
My wife and I were blowing the budget with little takeaways, clothes, treats, and all the ‘good stuff’. Thanks to the spending tracking we've curbed our spend down, which is essential because as of 3 weeks ago we've got a little baby boy. Finding out we were expecting a bub just at the start of Covid would have been scary if we spent like we used to. But everything is under control.
- Blake

Congrats to you Blake. You don’t know what it means to us to have been part of your little family’s growth. May you, and all our Upsiders big and small, thrive in 2021.

Here's to you, and a bright New Year.

Thanks to the Upsiders who sent us their best suggestions and also photos of their doggos being good doggos. We never get tired of doggos.

From all of us at Up, here’s to a chilled out New Year 🎉

Please remember that Up does not provide financial advice, this is general advice. Up has not taken into account your personal objectives, financial situation or needs. You should consider the Up terms before making a decision to use Up. The information on this website is for general information only.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Budgeting, New Year Challenge 2021

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

UpYear Is Here! Let's Wrap Up Your 2020

Finish the year strong. Starting today take a trip down memory lane and get your personalised spending and saving review of 2020.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

Up 1.17.0 Release notes

Faster payments experience with Contacts on Up.

Up

Nov 05, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_onboarding_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Onboarding
Back to Blog

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019

=== blog_open-banking_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Open Banking
Back to Blog

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

=== blog_open-for-business-with-open-banking_.txt ===

Up is Open for Business with Open Banking

Updates

What is Open Banking?

Open Banking is an agreed way for banks to let their customers share data, safely, with third parties. It’s technically called the Consumer Data Right, or CDR, and is enforced by law by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC).

The CDR will eventually target many industries, such as insurance and utilities, but banking is the first industry legislated to implement it.

You can read more about it on the official website.

Why would I use it?

There’s a bunch of reasons why you might want to share your Up data with a third party. You might want to use budgeting software like You Need a Budget (YNAB), or Pocketbook. In the past, Australians could only use these by uploading a spreadsheet to these services, sharing bank passwords 😬 or letting them ‘screen scrape’ information from your account. None of these things felt OK to us (more on why later) so we’ve never allowed them.

You could also use Open Banking to apply for a loan. Often a loan provider will want to access your bank account to check that your finances are healthy before they hand over big dollars. Open Banking gives Up a way to share your data, if you want us to, on time limited terms and with higher security than emailing Bob the Banker your logins.

Is it safe?

Yes: safer than all of the alternatives above. Open Banking lets you share your Up banking data with a third party without having to give them your login credentials (such as a username or password). This is very different to services that screen-scrape your data via internet banking.

One of the key principles of how Open Banking works is that the customer has a very clear understanding of what is being shared, who it is being shared with and how long it is being shared for. We think it’s a great move.

The ACCC manages who can and cannot participate in the scheme and applies very strict controls on participants. In particular, any company that wants to access your data has to go through an accreditation process and as part of that, they need to have controls in place to delete your data if requested to do so, or when it is no longer needed.

Companies cannot access your data without your express consent, and you can withdraw that consent at any time.

What’s the difference between Open Banking & Up's API?

You may well have heard of our API, which lets you access your own data. Open Banking and Up’s API are both APIs. They’re both designed to give you control and access - but in different ways.

The API currently uses a single personal access token, that only you can have. You can use your own data - heaps of it - to build stuff and play around. We’re particularly impressed with the guy who made a flashing green light that goes off when he gets paid. But you can’t share your API key with anyone else. It would give them too much access to your personal data.

The Open Banking API is more constrained. It has to be, because it’s introducing more folks (third party businesses) to the party and each one needs to be checked and accredited. For that reason you cannot call the Open Banking API yourself; becoming an accredited Data Recipient, is a lengthy process with the ACCC. Open Banking is really aimed at business-to-business data sharing, and making it easier for you to move your financial products where they'll fit your circumstances best.

The API will continue to live alongside Open Banking.

What can I do with it now?

It’s early days. Up is one of the first organisations in Australia to be certified by the ACCC for Open Banking. That means we’re up and available, but the third parties you want to connect might not quite be there yet.

When other accredited businesses go looking, they’ll find us. So if there’s an app or service you’d really like to hook Up with your Up, ask them! The more people who ask the more likely they’ll be to do the work on their end to get connected.

A number of third parties are in the process of connecting their services which means you should shortly be able to access your Up data on their services.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Open banking

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_osko_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Osko
Back to Blog

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018

=== blog_out-and-about_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Out and about
Back to Blog

A night with Poncili Creación

At this year's RISING festival, we sat down with one half of the creatively unhinged duo, Poncili Creación to chat dreams, underground artists and seagulls. Yep, seagulls.

Up

Jun 29, 2023

UP x RISING

Melbourne’s premier art, music, food and culture festival RISING is done and dusted for 2023 after 12 evenings under moonlight in the heart of town.

Up

Jun 23, 2023

=== blog_pages_10_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018

Rebooting Banking

Our journey began with a simple question: what could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

Anson Parker

Oct 31, 2018

Up-cycling core banking

Up is treading a different path to most other digital banks in that it’s being developed through a collaboration between a software company (us) and a so-called “traditional bank” (Bendigo Bank).

Anson Parker

Aug 15, 2018

Lock it Up!

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Anson Parker

Aug 09, 2018

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018

=== blog_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

New Year’s resolutions feel good to make, but there’s a smarter way to change. Upsider Anna shares her secret to really saving.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

Jan 04, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

How to Save for a Baby

Truth is, no one ever plans perfectly for a baby. Sometimes we don’t even get the option to try. Here's an Up team member's take on what you can control, and how you can prep your space and your Savers to meet the new arrival.

Anne Shea

Dec 14, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2022

Up

Dec 13, 2022

Custom Spending Insights

Noticed a new taste of rainbow in your Up feed? We’ve tuned up Insights so they can turn at your speed. Engineer María Acuña lays out what’s changing.

Maria

Dec 01, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

From the 'Hi Mum' text to shady Marketplace buys, scams are on the rise across Australia. Here’s how – together – we can keep your dollars safe. May the power protect you.

Up

Nov 03, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pages_3_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2021

Up

Dec 14, 2021

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Ready, but not really ready (eek!) to share money? Ash and Nathan used 2Up to restart their financial lives; this time in co-op mode.

Nathan and Ash

Nov 30, 2021

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pages_4_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up is Open for Business with Open Banking

Up has been certified for Open Banking. This means you can now safely share your Up data with certified third party apps, like budgeting platforms or loan providers.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pages_5_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

Don't let Owed Money Tension get you down. When the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you need it, you can now request money from your mates on Up.

Up

Feb 15, 2021

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

UpYear Is Here! Let's Wrap Up Your 2020

Finish the year strong. Starting today take a trip down memory lane and get your personalised spending and saving review of 2020.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

Up 1.17.0 Release notes

Faster payments experience with Contacts on Up.

Up

Nov 05, 2020

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pages_6_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Retro logos are the best logos.

Anthony Langhorne

Apr 01, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pages_7_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

In App Card Details are here!

Up

Dec 16, 2019

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pages_8_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019

Up 1.6.1 Release Notes

Boosted Round Ups and Even Dollar Round Ups.

Up

Jul 31, 2019

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

We’re excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

Anson Parker

Jun 12, 2019

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

Up 1.4.5 Release Notes

Transaction tagging, contact icons, new card ordering.

Up

Jun 06, 2019

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

New statements, new loaders, new emoji and skin tone support.

Up

May 22, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pages_9_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Read by topic
How to Up (40)Updates (37)Building Up (26)Release Notes (24)Spending and Budgeting (19)Saving (19)Insights (14)Payments (14)Innovation (12)Development (12)

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Emoji saver icons, change your mobile number, grouped transactions, and card controls.

Up

May 08, 2019

The Tree of Up

We're excited to introduce a new kind of product roadmap. We're calling it The Tree of Up – a technology tree-like view of our product plans for 2019.

Anson Parker

Mar 13, 2019

The Round Ups Round-up

Having now made over 250,000 round ups we take a nerdy dive into the data we've seen, including the most common cents amounts on purchases and our plans for the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 28, 2019

Who are our Upsiders?

With Up flying past 30,000 customers within a few months of launch, we thought we'd introduce a few faces who are enjoying life on the Upside.

Up

Feb 13, 2019

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pause-fest_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Pause Fest
Back to Blog

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

=== blog_pax_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

PAX
Back to Blog

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

=== blog_pay-an-upsider_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Pay an Upsider
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020

=== blog_pay-day-and-spendable-balance_.txt ===

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Updates, Spending and Budgeting, How to Up

With the release of our Pay Day feature we wanted to provide some background on it and why we think it’s kind of a big deal. Read on to learn more about how this feature came into being and how to get up and running with it. If you’re looking for a shorter version head over to the Pay Day feature page.

Breeze Between Pay Days
Learn how Pay Day works

Today we're excited to launch a feature that has been a part of the vision for Up since the earliest days. Our original pitch centred around developing a new set of capabilities, absent in banking apps of the day (and still mostly AWOL), that would provide customers with a vastly increased level of clarity and understanding over their finances. Specifically, these capabilities included:

Merchant ID: A technology to identify the businesses customers spend their money with, powering insights and the next feature...
Upcoming: Detecting patterns in past spending to predict future charges. Which can then be used to calculate your...
Spendable balance: The money you can safely spend before next pay, making sure your upcoming charges are taken into account.

These features build on top of each other — we couldn't have delivered a Spendable balance without first understanding your future commitments, which we couldn't have done without first identifying merchants to determine their charging patterns.

And so this day carries with it a special sense of achievement. While Pay Day is not our flashiest feature nor our most complex (by any stretch), it is one of our most important.

Let Up Do the Math

Working out when all your bills, subscriptions, and repayments are due and how much they add up to is not something most of us can do in our heads. Yet understanding how much you need to set aside for bills is one of the more important elements to successfully managing your everyday finances. Without it, you risk spending money that you don’t really have — money that’s already been committed.

To work this number out, you need three ingredients:

A list of upcoming bills, charges and payments. We already have a place for these in Up — it’s the Upcoming screen. Upcoming is not just about rent and subscriptions, it also takes into account saving commitments, repayments, and investments.
A time frame. Many future charges are repeating ones. It therefore becomes important to work out how far we need to look ahead to determine which charges we’re allowing for. It turns out your pay day is a great marker for this — it’s the day you’ll be seeing money deposited into your account, so we can assume charges from that day onward can be taken care of by that next pay packet.
A balance. Your Available balance is the starting point from which we then subtract the relevant upcoming charges (over the time frame identified in the previous step). This is what then gives us your Spendable balance.

With these ingredients combined, we can then offer some beautifully simple upgrades in the app. Upcoming can now show you just the total of charges before your next pay day, while the Activity screen now lets you switch between your Available balance and your Spendable balance (which again, is your Available balance minus relevant upcoming charges).

Those of us on the team who have been testing this feature have found it an enormous help. No more last minute shuffling of funds or bounced bills needing to be chased down. But we know there are a lot of different ways people use Up as well as all sorts of different ways people get paid. Admittedly, Pay Day works best for those on regular pay cycles (or with regular deposits from their other accounts) who are happy to keep their bill money in their main Up Spending account.

With all that being said, let’s take a walk through getting set up with the feature as it stands today...

Step 1: Add Your Pay Day to Up

In the Upcoming screen of the app you can now add your pay day (follow the prompts) by indicating the frequency of your pay — weekly, fortnightly or monthly — and providing the date of your next pay.

This doesn’t have to be your “official” pay packet — it could be the day you transfer money into Up from another account, or even just a cycle that works for you in the case you have multiple sources of income.

After setting up Pay Day, Upcoming will now show you the total of your expected charges that fall before your next pay. But the really cool bit is the next piece...

Step 2: Switch to Spendable

Now you’ve got your pay day added, you can now swipe back over to Activity and you’ll notice the label for your Available balance looks a little different. Tapping it will switch between your Available and Spendable balances.

It’s worth noting your Spendable balance will never display a number less than $0. So if you’re seeing $0 it means you have less money in your account than you do expected charges. Head back over to Upcoming to see what the total of those charges is and adjust accordingly.

In certain places we’ll now start showing your Spendable balance in preference to your Available one (e.g. spending notifications). We’re still rolling out Spendable across the apps and widgets, so let us know if you spot the perfect location we’ve missed.

Let Us Know

We hope this feature offers a genuine improvement to the way you manage your everyday finances, making it easier to stay on the right side of your bills.

While this feature might not work perfectly for every set up, we think for many Upsiders it will be a great help. We hope you’ll try out the feature and let us know if there are changes that could make it work better for you. We’re excited to hear your thoughts either way.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Release Notes, Up 2.0.5, Pay Day, Spendable Balance

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pay-day-feature_.txt ===

Pay Day

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting

Thousands of Upsiders have chosen to have their salary deposited into their Up accounts, making Up their primary bank account. They’ve placed trust in our product and support teams to quickly resolve any issues relating to their hard earned cash. That vote of confidence means a lot to us, thank you!

It’s been my pleasure to work on a few new features, designed especially for these customers to make pay day a great experience. Let me explain what you can expect on pay day with Up.

Breeze Between Pay Days
Learn how Pay Day works
Instant Gratification

If you’ve ever found yourself short on money at the end of your pay cycle you’re not alone. When this happens it’s really important to know when you’re paid. With traditional banks you might find yourself checking your balance repeatedly on the days leading up to pay day to see if it’s dropped into your account early, or leave you frustrated if there’s unexpected delays.

With Up, we’ll let you know the second you’re paid with a push notification. Rest easy.

Salary ID

One of Up’s most loved super-powers is something we call the Naked Truth which has been more than 6 years in the making. Our merchant system is great at recognising who you’ve purchased from. Rather than shouting at you in ALL CAPS with obscure transaction descriptions we’ll show you the correct business name, logo, time and location.

We’ve been busy extending this system so we can bring this same level of clarity to your favourite payments, like your incoming salary!

Sometimes this is very difficult. As an example, there’s been fifty payments with nothing more than the description 301500. That is not very helpful at all.

The ability to match incoming payments with employers is brand new, so there’s a chance your salary payments won’t be correctly identified right off the bat. We may ask for your help in identifying your salary correctly. You can also contact us anytime using Talk to Us if your salary payments are not automatically identified, or they’re just not looking quite right. That way when you hook up your work mates we may be able to identify your employer by the time they move their salaries across! Pay it forward and identify your Pay / Salary.

Pay History

No longer will you need to hunt through your activity feed or pay slips to find out how much you’ve earned. Up will automatically present your pay history clearly in a new thread for your employer on the Payments screen.

At a glance, you’ll clearly be able to see your pay cycle and spot when there’s been changes in frequency or amount. This new style of payment thread is specifically designed for incoming payments, a variation on the thread style for conversational payments that you already know and love.

Savings

We are unapologetic in encouraging people to save more. We believe that savings can make a huge difference to your well-being. Savings is cash at hand to deal with unexpected circumstances. Savings can give you the confidence to quit a toxic job. Savings is freedom and security. A bit like insurance, but better! Rather than paying someone else for this security your savings pays you compounding interest, it’s a win-win.

One way we encourage savings is with Round Ups, a kind of “gateway drug” into a lifelong savings habit that you won’t want to kick. This feature helps people who didn’t know they could save start their savings journey. Everyday purchases will move your spare change into savings, little by little, or in bigger chunks with Boosted Round Ups for those brave souls wanting to save more aggressively.

Another time we want to encourage saving is on pay day. It’s a time when you can either gain more control over your spending and saving, or get yourself into trouble by spending more than you should. A strategy that many financial experts recommend is to move portions of your pay into savings on the day it’s deposited. Rather than trying to save with whatever is left at the end of your pay cycle, setting aside money at the time it’s deposited gives you an accurate available balance for spending that takes into account your savings goals.

Split Payments

No matter what your savings goals are, it’s now easy to automate them with Split Payments. Simply turn it on, and then adjust the percentages of your pay that you want to send into your Savers on pay day. It’s as easy as that!

Set up like this, each time you’re paid Up would immediately send:

10% of your pay into your Holiday Saver
10% of your pay into your Home Saver
20% of your pay into your Emergency Saver

Leaving 60% of your pay in your Up account for spending.

You can decide how much or how little you want to have available for spending. If you believe your money is stretched too thin as it is, why not give it a try with 5% to begin with and see how it goes? You might be surprised, and you can withdraw from your Up Savers whenever you need to.

Saving 120%

Designing and developing this unique interface was a lot of fun, and it went through many iterations. We wanted to make it as easy as possible for you to set up your automated pay day transfers, and to show you visually how this was affecting the amount you have remaining for spending.

We spent quite a bit of time getting the boundaries feeling right, adding resistance to the dragging when you’d hit 100%. It’s satisfying seeing those sliders bounce back in line, don’t you think?

Salary Activity

In your Up Activity feed we’ll show you exactly what’s happened when your pay was deposited. All activity relating to your automated Split Payments will be clearly grouped together with your incoming pay.

The payment receipt will also feature your automated pay day transfers, useful as a reference when looking back at your savings. Insights will show how much your employer has paid you in the month, year and all time as well.

Split Payments are a simple yet powerful way to automate your savings that we hope encourages you to save more, and gain more control over your spending. This awesome new Up feature will help keep your savings on track.

If you haven’t yet moved your salary across to Up you can also enable Split Payments for your funding accounts. Or, simply ask your employer to move your pay across to Up to take advantage of these features automatically on pay day. You can find your Up account details at the top of the Up menu, simply slide across and tap “Copy BSB/Account Number”.

There’s never been a better time to start saving than now. Give it a try and let us know what you think, we’d love to hear how you’re using it!

Mark Brown

Engineer

@markbrown4

Tags: Payments, Saving, Automated Transfers, Round Ups, Pay Splitting

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_pay-day_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Pay Day
Back to Blog

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

=== blog_pay-id_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

PayID
Back to Blog

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018

=== blog_pay-splits_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Pay Splits
Back to Blog

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

=== blog_pay-splitting_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Pay Splitting
Back to Blog

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

=== blog_paying-someone_.txt ===

Paying Someone

How to Up

(Already an Up customer and looking for your PayID in-app? Go to Up > Payment Settings > Up Spending)

In an earlier post on this blog we described how one of our core aims in building Up is to explore the following question:

What could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

In the next few weeks or so we’ll be releasing version 1.0 of payments to all Up customers. We’re excited to show you our ambitious vision for what a modern payments platform can be. In the meantime we wanted to provide this brief introduction into how we’ve approached payments.

At the core of our approach is this central premise:

We believe payments are a conversation

Banks have traditionally represented payments as two separate halves: payments out vs payments in. Payments out are usually made by filling in a “Pay Anyone” form, with saved payees used to make completing the form faster; while payments in are treated no differently to any other deposit to your account. There’s no easy way to see when a friend last paid you (or you, them) let alone to use that context to inform making a new payment.

We think payments between you and your friends belong together, whether they are payments in or payments out. We think this view should be similar to the one you’d have in WhatsApp, iMessages or any other modern messaging platform.

A preview of a payment thread in Up: a single place to view your activity with a friend.

Initially we’ll support a single “conversation” between you and each of your contacts but eventually this threaded approach will allow for more than two participants. This will make splitting bills with friends or collecting money from a group of friends for a concert much simpler than it is today. But we’re getting into future roadmap territory here, let’s focus on the basics for now…

Creating this conversational view when you build your own payments platform such as Venmo (in the US) or the Australian analog, Beem It, is relatively straight-forward. Delivering this view in a banking app designed to work with all other banks in the country is a little trickier.

To achieve our aim, we actually need a little help from our customers to match both sides of the conversation together — the payments you’ve made to your friend, to the payments they’ve made to you. Once that connection has been established Up will take care of the work from then on.

Identifying a contact for an unidentified incoming payment thread

So that’s the threaded view. It looks far more like messaging apps such as WhatsApp than a traditional banking payments screen. But what about the other issues with bank transfers in Australia? If you’ve ever sent money to someone you might have noticed you can generally only type in a few characters for a message and that money can only be sent on weekdays during business hours. That’s where Osko enters the picture…

The New Payments Platform

Australia has recently seen a massive uplift to its underlying payments infrastructure used to send money between Australian bank accounts. The New Payments Platform, and it’s consumer overlay Osko, have recently come online.

This new payments infrastructure allows you to send money almost instantly to most bank accounts in Australia. It is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Osko allows you to type much longer messages with payments that can support foreign languages and emoji characters! 😊

Along with Osko a new service called PayID has been introduced. It lets you map your mobile phone number or email address to your bank account so your friends don’t need to know your BSB or Account number — they can instead use one of those two contact details. You can enable PayID in Up today from the Payment Settings screen:

Up has built a payment system that leverages Osko at its core to enable near immediate payments 24/7. Up will only fall back to traditional payment methods when Osko is unavailable so you can still send cash to any account in Australia.

Not all payments are the same

We understand not all payments are best viewed as a conversation. We recognise, for example, that you may have accounts at other banks, either transactional in nature or for products Up doesn’t currently offer such as a credit card or mortgages. It makes sense to treat payments to these external accounts differently.

In fact, by identifying your accounts at other banks Up can deliver you custom notifications, allow you to quickly transfer money to and (eventually) from those accounts and give you better insights into where your money goes. Up can start to become, over time, a smart hub to manage your money wherever it may be. We can use this understanding to enable programmatic banking, performing actions automatically like transferring a percentage of your pay to your external credit card when you get paid or rounding up your purchases to a mortgage account elsewhere.

Launching Soon

Payments in Up is currently being tested with a small customer group who’ve been given early access. All going well, we will be releasing payments broadly in the next few weeks.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Payments, Threads, Osko, PayID

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Rebooting Banking

Our journey began with a simple question: what could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

Anson Parker

Oct 31, 2018

Up-cycling core banking

Up is treading a different path to most other digital banks in that it’s being developed through a collaboration between a software company (us) and a so-called “traditional bank” (Bendigo Bank).

Anson Parker

Aug 15, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_payment-abuse_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Payment Abuse
Back to Blog

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

=== blog_payment-requests_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Payment Requests
Back to Blog

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

Don't let Owed Money Tension get you down. When the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you need it, you can now request money from your mates on Up.

Up

Feb 15, 2021

=== blog_payments_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Payments
Back to Blog

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

Don't let Owed Money Tension get you down. When the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you need it, you can now request money from your mates on Up.

Up

Feb 15, 2021

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

In App Card Details are here!

Up

Dec 16, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_payments_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Payments
Back to Blog

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018

=== blog_pull-to-save_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Pull to Save
Back to Blog

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

=== blog_real-time_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Real-time
Back to Blog

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018

=== blog_rebooting-banking_.txt ===

Rebooting Banking

Building Up

Our journey began with a simple question:

What could a banking platform look like if was built from scratch today, freed from legacy and designed from the outset to embrace the capabilities of current technology?

The more we looked into why banking was the way it was — why, for example, it can take days for purchases on your credit or debit card to show up in your account; why transactions are often so hard to understand, full of abbreviations and written in shouty uppercase; why you can’t pay your friends (or even bills) on the weekend — the more we felt it didn’t need to be that way.

A Brief History…

A lot of the limitations in banking only really make sense today once you understand the constraints that existed at the time a function was first introduced. For example, you would have noticed sending money to someone at another bank almost always takes longer than a day. Why is this? Well, before networked computing, representatives from banks would need to physically swap records of payments between each of their banks. It simply would have been impractical to do this more frequently than once a day. When this process was digitised it made everyone’s life a lot easier (as you can imagine) but because all the processes in place relied on a daily “batch” swap this is how the system continued, never mind that technology made it practical to have money transfer between banks instantly.

Mainframes like the IBM 360 system powered the early digitisation of banking.

Similarly, your transaction history is often so hard to understand because of limitations imposed decades earlier by computer mainframe systems that only supported an uppercase character set and had a very modest storage capacity (by today’s standards) that restricted how long a transaction description could be. Neither of these constraints exist any more, but their echoes continue to influence the way we view our past spending.

Our view is these constraints no longer exist or make sense, so let’s not continue to impose them on our customers. What we need is a fresh approach.

First Principles

You have probably heard of Elon Musk, the entrepreneur/inventor behind the electric vehicle manufacturer Tesla, now one of the biggest auto companies in the world, as well as SpaceX, his privately held space exploration company. He is renowned for his “first principles” approach to problem solving. As Elon describes it:

“First principles” is a physics way of looking at the world… what that really means is that you boil things down to the most fundamental truths... and then reason up from there.

We’re applying this way of thinking in order to reboot banking. We are challenging the assumptions and limitations that are prevalent in the banking industry and re-evaluating them from a more current point of view:

For example, most money movement occurs digitally, whether its between accounts or through contactless purchases at retailers; computing power and storage is both awesome and reasonably priced; almost all Australians are going about their daily lives with always-connected supercomputers in their pockets.

Yet despite these fundamental truths, people are at risk of becoming less connected to their finances than ever before. A recent study found 1 in 3 Australians spends more than they earn. Many people are getting into difficulty by leaning too heavily on credit cards, with the average Australian credit card balance over $4000 in the red. Technology has made paying for things faster and more convenient than ever before, but we have yet to see it used as effectively to help us better understand our spending.

We think there’s an opportunity to improve this situation and reverse the trend — to help people better connect with their spending but also to free them from the “banking busywork” of manually shuffling funds around or filling out forms, albeit digitally.

Over the coming weeks we’ll be writing about a number of areas we’re looking to reimagine. We’ll be discussing both the challenges faced by consumers today as well as some of the opportunities we think technology provides to improve them.

In the meantime, we’d love to hear from you about any of the frustrations you have with banking (or ideas for improvements).

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: History, Innovation

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up-cycling core banking

Up is treading a different path to most other digital banks in that it’s being developed through a collaboration between a software company (us) and a so-called “traditional bank” (Bendigo Bank).

Anson Parker

Aug 15, 2018

Lock it Up!

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Anson Parker

Aug 09, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_rebooting-transactions_.txt ===

Rebooting Transactions

Building Up

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

To understand why, we must take a brief look back in time...

A short history of the ledger

A bank’s ledger is its heart and brain — an accounting of all funds and activity from which everything else derives. For centuries, a bank’s ledger existed as a physical book — literally ink on paper. The mid-20th century brought about the digitisation of the ledger. It moved from paper to magnetic tape and its upkeep was managed by large, expensive (but importantly, automated) mainframe computer systems.

While this provided banks with a huge efficiency boost, it also broke the shackles between a customer and their local branch. It allowed them to access their accounts instantly from anywhere and at any time.

It was at this point the evolution of the ledger largely stalled. While there have been decades of incremental updates (data is no longer stored on reels of magnetic tape for example) little has fundamentally changed.

Today’s ledger can tell you how much money you have in your account, but it can’t tell you what your real financial position is. It doesn’t know which bills you have due this week or how long the money in your account needs to last until you next get paid. You can’t ask it to automatically save 10% of your salary towards a holiday or how much you’ve spent on fuel this year.

Doing so is going to require a transformation of the ledger from “dumb” log file to intelligent financial engine.

Up will present your purchases in a format you can understand, providing recognisable business names along with additional details like location and category.
Capturing the complete picture

Today’s ledger has a data problem. You can see evidence of this any time you look at your bank statement. All-caps listings of abbreviated business names and places, strange acronyms, and columns of credits and debits make for confusing reading. Just recognising where you made purchases can be a challenge — there is no better evidence of this than the 14 million unknown transaction enquiries Australian banks field from customers every year!

The way transactions are shown is reminiscent of the columns of real estate classifieds that used to run in newspapers. A typical ad would read something like “1BR APT W/ENS & WIR. OSP”. Space was at a premium and thousands of these ads had to be printed on paper and distributed. In order to keep costs down we developed cryptic acronyms and became masters of abbreviation.

The internet changed all of that.

Real estate websites now publish lengthy, persuasive descriptions and feature large, high-resolution galleries of photographs with sweeping, drone-shot aerial video. Listings are augmented with floor plans, comparative pricing reports and “walkability” scores. The real estate ad has been completely transformed by technology and a new medium of distribution.

We now have the computing power, storage space and the means of delivery to revolutionise the way we capture, parse and present your financial life back to you; to provide something worthy of this digital age we’re living in. You deserve to be given a complete picture of your spending and income. Time of day, location, category of spend, and business trading name are examples of just some of the gaps in the data that need to be filled.

After we develop this complete data picture our work is far from over, however. We must now provide meaning and context to this data and understand the relationships within it.

By understanding your spending patterns we can begin to recognize patterns. It turns out most of us have quite a few monthly recurring charges - mobile phone, rent, music streaming, and car insurance to name a few.
A meaningful, relational data model

As important as a complete and detailed picture of your transactions is, it is equally important that we consider those transactions as not just individual actions, but as actions occurring in the broader context of your financial life.

Simple measures, like whether a purchase is being made with a business for the first or the tenth time have impacts on everything from security and fraud to more experiential concepts such as whether we should send a notification of the purchase to you.

Going deeper and understanding the financial relationship you have with a business turns out to provide many interesting opportunities to keep you better informed going forward.

For one, we can update you each month on how much you’ve spent at your local cafe or the supermarket around the corner. By recognising patterns in your spending with individual businesses, such as a charge on the same day each month, we can start to predict future charges and give you a more informed view of your upcoming financial commitments.

Our new, intelligent ledger should be able to discern when an incoming credit is in fact a pay cheque, when a retail purchase is an airline ticket overseas or when a bill payment is a renewal of your car registration. These are all important, actionable triggers that will enable a new generation of financial services.

Real-time and event-based

Finally, we must talk about speed. The reality is that today many banking ledgers still run on batch processes — purchases can take days to appear, balances update overnight, and payments get credited in the early hours of the morning.

To be responsive and relevant it is essential to have a platform that can understand and respond in real-time. A notification of a charge days (or even hours) after the actual event isn’t going to cut it.

An intelligent ledger should be able to detect the instant you are paid and immediately transfer 10% into a savings target, or even more fundamentally, send you a notification that you’ve just been paid.

Without this event-based capability we are left with clumsy, imprecise emulations, such as scheduling monthly recurring payments (fingers crossed the payroll is never late!) or continually checking for a change in balance.

Viva la revolución

It is only by starting with these right ingredients that we can truly enter the age of digital banking. An intelligent ledger is the essential foundation on top of which Up will deliver personalised, relevant, modern services.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Security, Technology, Real-time, History

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_recycling_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Recycling
Back to Blog

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020

=== blog_release-notes_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Release Notes
Back to Blog

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021

Up 1.17.0 Release notes

Faster payments experience with Contacts on Up.

Up

Nov 05, 2020

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_release-notes_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Release Notes
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

In App Card Details are here!

Up

Dec 16, 2019

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019

Up 1.6.1 Release Notes

Boosted Round Ups and Even Dollar Round Ups.

Up

Jul 31, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_release-notes_pages_3_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Release Notes
Back to Blog

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019

Up 1.4.5 Release Notes

Transaction tagging, contact icons, new card ordering.

Up

Jun 06, 2019

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

New statements, new loaders, new emoji and skin tone support.

Up

May 22, 2019

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Emoji saver icons, change your mobile number, grouped transactions, and card controls.

Up

May 08, 2019

=== blog_request-money_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Request money
Back to Blog

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

Don't let Owed Money Tension get you down. When the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you need it, you can now request money from your mates on Up.

Up

Feb 15, 2021

=== blog_rising_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Rising
Back to Blog

A night with Poncili Creación

At this year's RISING festival, we sat down with one half of the creatively unhinged duo, Poncili Creación to chat dreams, underground artists and seagulls. Yep, seagulls.

Up

Jun 29, 2023

UP x RISING

Melbourne’s premier art, music, food and culture festival RISING is done and dusted for 2023 after 12 evenings under moonlight in the heart of town.

Up

Jun 23, 2023

=== blog_roadmap_.txt ===

Welcome to The Tree of Up

The Tree is our feature roadmap — a way for us to share with you what we've built, what we're working on, and what we'll be doing in the future.

It's a great way to understand how features are connected to each other and see which features are the necessary foundations for other functionality to be built on.

Don't take the absence of any feature as evidence it won't one day appear — we welcome your ideas and input. Send them through Talk to Us in the app.

Tap to continue.

Up
RELEASE NOTES
v3.4.12 | App
JAN 20, 2025
Welcome to 2025!
Ins:
+ Sending your pet pics through Talk To Us
+ Taking the Save Up $1000 challenge

Outs:
+ The app being slow
+ Bugs (the digital kind)
v3.4.11 | App
DEC 9, 2024
+ December’s here, and we all know what that means: a breakdown of how much you’ve overplayed your favourite artist. But while your music habits might not evolve, your money story sure does. UpYear 2024 has landed! It’s time to explore how your finances moved throughout the year.
v3.4.10 | App
NOV 25, 2024
+ Something big is on the horizon. This week, The Upside will experience an extraordinary downpour—but not of rain. On Monday (25/11) at 9am AEDT, a surprise awaits you—our Upsiders—all 1 million of you. Make sure your app is up to date so you don’t miss out!

+ Create a new Saver and add it directly to your Pay Splitting setup, all within the Saver creation flow. Let Pay Splitting automatically allocate your pay to your chosen Savers the moment it lands.
v3.4.9 | App
NOV 11, 2024
+ We’ve crushed some bugs and fine-tuned the app for a smoother ride. Update now and feel the difference.
v3.4.8 | App
OCT 28, 2024
+ Spring cleaning is in full swing—we've combined all your Saver options into one convenient "Upgrades" menu. Enjoy a more streamlined Saver screen with a clear view of which Upgrades are active on each Saver.
v3.4.7 | App
OCT 14, 2024
+ Got a savings goal? Set the date, and we'll handle the maths. When you're creating a new Saver, just tell us your goal date and how often you want to save—we’ll calculate the rest and set up auto transfers for you, auto-magically.
v3.4.6 | App
SEP 30, 2024
+ Get more control on how interest is applied to your account. You can now choose whether or not you want to receive interest on the balance of your Up or 2Up Savers. Tap the interest rate banner in app for more.

+ Perfection is only one pull away. You can now get hands on with all your favourite Card Controls and security settings faster. Pull down on your Activity Feed in app and tap 'Show Card' to reveal your favourites, the whole gang is there.
v3.4.5 | App
SEP 16, 2024
iOS
+ We've supercharged Auto Transfers. If one fails, we’ll now skip it and keep your future Auto Transfers on schedule. You’ll also see a prompt in your Activity feed to retry and get back on track.

+ Spring’s here, and so were the bugs—but we’ve squashed them all. Enjoy a smoother experience, bug-free.

Android
+ Travelling overseas with Up just got easier. When Travel Mode is toggled on, your account overview widget will now display your balance in AUD and the local currency of the country you’re in.

+ We've supercharged Auto Transfers. If one fails, we’ll now skip it and keep your future Auto Transfers on schedule. You’ll also see a prompt in your Activity feed to retry and get back on track.

+Spring’s here, and so were the bugs—but we’ve squashed them all. Enjoy a smoother experience, bug-free.
v3.4.4 | App
SEP 2, 2024
iOS
+ Travelling overseas with Up just got easier. When Travel Mode is toggled on, your account overview widget will now display your balance in AUD and the local currency of the country you’re in.

+ We've also added a new travel widget that lets you set a fixed foreign currency amount to an account or Saver of your choice. Get a quick snapshot of your funds in the local currency while you’re abroad.

Android
+ A bit of pre-spring spring-cleaning behind the scenes.

+ New & improved widgets supporting Travel Mode are on their way to you very soon. Stay tuned.
v3.4.3 | App
AUG 19, 2024
+ I's: Dotted. T's: Crossed. Our codebase has never looked so grammatically correct.
v3.4.2 | App
AUG 5, 2024
+ You can now retry a failed Maybuy save directly from your Activity feed. If a save fails, you'll see a notification in your Activity feed, and you can attempt the save again by tapping on it.

+ A light cut and polish, and a bug or two squashed to optimise performance.
v3.4.1 | App
JUL 24, 2024
+ Quickly tightening some screws behind the scenes.
v3.4.0 | App
JUL 22, 2024
+ Heading overseas? Travel Mode makes it easy. See your balance in the local currency with your first tap abroad, and use our new currency converter to always know exactly what you're paying.

+ If you’ve added Notes & Attachments to your transactions, you can now access them from our Developer API.
v3.3.16 | App
JUL 8, 2024
+ Upgrade your Savings. You’ll now be prompted to lock, hide or move your round-ups to your new Saver right in the creation flow.

+ Spread your Maybuy Saves across up to 52 instalments — smooth like butter.
v3.3.15 | App
JUN 24, 2024
+ We've streamlined the flow for creating a new Saver to be easier and more enjoyable than ever.
v3.3.14 | App
JUN 11, 2024
+ Itching to complete a Maybuy? Now you can add money towards a Maybuy whenever you please. Hit your goals faster and Maybuy (or Maybuy not) sooner.
v3.3.13 | App
MAY 27, 2024
+ Put on the winter doona to keep the app warm while we get some things ready behind the scenes.
v3.3.12 | App
MAY 16, 2024
+ Cheeky cut and polish to make sure Talk to Us is firing at full capacity. As you were.
v3.3.11 | App
MAY 13, 2024
+ Tired of scanning QR codes? Fear not — you're now in total control. Create, review and revoke your developer API token right from under the "Data Sharing" menu in-app.

+ Some very organised Upsiders pointed out that a bug was preventing them from scheduling a payment directly from a Saver when the balance was at $0. We've since shown the bug the door; so schedule away.
v3.3.10 | App
MAY 1, 2024
+ Cut back on your transfers. You can now pay a mate back or send a payment directly from your Savers. Your Activity feed has never looked neater.

+ Choose from 3 new carefully curated Hi—Fi Sounds during your next Hi—Fi check-in and get in the zone to calmly contemplate your standing with money.

+ 2Up: Your Maybuy Wishlist is now a team effort — save items you’re both eyeing off and let your Player 2 in on the action before the transaction.
v3.3.9 | App
APR 18, 2024
Just tidying Up. Nothing to see here.
v3.3.8 | App
APR 16, 2024
iOS
You know when you sit down to work, but first you need to clean up your desk before you can really get moving? Think of this update like that.
+ If you like big widgets and you cannot lie, you're in luck. You can now enjoy all of Up's widgets at their biggest scale yet in StandBy mode.

Android
You know when you sit down to work, but first you need to clean up your desk before you can really get moving? Think of this update like that.
v3.3.7 | App
APR 2, 2024
+ We've added in some touch points to keep you up to date with your Up Home application. You'll now be able to see more updates to the status of your application in-app, so you'll have more clarity around what to expect next.
v3.3.6 | App
MAR 18, 2024
+ We've rolled out a fresh new welcome mat for Up Home. Once your settlement is complete, we'll take you on a guided tour through your home loan. We'll also get you to dot some i's and cross some t's, just so we can be sure you've got a clear run at your loan from the jump.
v3.3.5 | App
MAR 5, 2024
+ Up Home: We’ve made it easier to see the impact of your offsets, adding a new home loan balance that shows what you owe minus any spending and saving offsets. Your home loan balance can now cycle between “Loan balance”, “Available for redraw” and “Offset loan balance”.
v3.3.4 | App
FEB 27, 2024
+ We’ve meticulously cleaned and polished both the exterior and interior of the app by hand. So shiny you can see your own reflection in the Activity feed.
v3.3.3 | App
FEB 19, 2024
+ You can now see more info about attempted charges right when they happen. It's easier to top up funds to try again or cancel your card if things feel suspicious.
+ Always losing your receipts? Up High members can now add notes and attachments to transactions. Snap a photo directly from the app, or attach a photo from your camera roll. Never go bin diving for a receipt again.
v3.3.2 | App
FEB 7, 2024
+ A light polish with added grunt. See our previous release notes for the real injection of app magic.
v3.3.1 | App
FEB 6, 2024
+ A Higher power approaches: Keep an eye out in-app for access to an elevated banking experience.
+ During your next Hi-Fi System Check-in, you'll get to choose from 3 new Hi—Fi Sounds to help you calmly contemplate your standing with money.
v3.3.0 | App
JAN 22, 2024
+ We've upgraded Spendable balance to now consider all future upcoming expenses, and we really do mean all of them. Spendable balance will now set aside and reserve cash each pay cycle for future bills, storing away a little bit extra to take care of those bigger bills you have waiting for you in a few months time. Switch between your Available and Spendable balance to see how much you can safely spend before your next pay.
+ Cheques may be on the way out, but that doesn't mean they don't deserve first-class treatment in the meantime. We've tidied up the way cheque deposits are shown in the app. Now, you'll be notified when your cheque clears, instead of when you deposit it, and the progress of your deposit is easier keep tabs on, from start to finish.
v3.2.0 | App
DEC 18, 2023
+ Up Home: We've made some visual tweaks and navigation improvements to your Up Home experience. The journey to home ownership on Up is getting brighter everyday, no matter what stage you're at.
+ PayTo: The digital alternative to Direct Debit and a new, secure way to pay is now available on Up. Pause, resume or cancel real-time Payment Agreements in-app from all eligible billers.
+ We've made a wise move and boosted your Wise International daily payment limit from $5k to $30k. A no-brainer.
v3.1.1 | App
NOV 27, 2023
+ The year's almost Up but it's still spring and we're still cleaning. We're decluttering those cords behind the sound system to plug some new things in.
v3.1.0 | App
NOV 13, 2023
+ Unread messages under your "Talk to Us" tab are now marked with an orange dot. In our world full of triangles, we've gone full circle.
+ We've exterminated a bug responsible for causing delays to your Insights info updating. Get real Insights in real time.
v3.0.0 | App
OCT 30, 2023
iOS
+ We've built a simple, automated, in-app money management system designed to take the stress out of money so you can focus on living the good life. Put your money on auto and cruise between pay days with Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System.
+ We've added a Live Activity countdown to iOS 16+ devices. Now when you unlock a locked Saver you'll see the time remaining in the Dynamic Island and/or lock screen. More visibility means more consideration.

Android
+ We've built a simple, automated, in-app money management system designed to take the stress out of money so you can focus on living the good life. Put your money on auto and cruise between pay days with Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System.
v2.5.9 | App
OCT 16, 2023
iOS
+ We love a good spring clean. We swept away some bugs and thrifted some old code we had laying about.
+ 2Up Spendable is now on your wrist in both an Apple Watch complication and in-app. It's also coming through crystal clear on your Home Screen widget too.
+ When sending money from a 2Up Saver, your 2Up Spending is now the default "to" account. Here's to less faff and quicker transfers at the checkout.

Android
+ We love a good spring clean. We swept away some bugs and thrifted some old code we had laying about.
+ When sending money from a 2Up Saver, your 2Up Spending is now the default "to" account. Here's to less faff and quicker transfers at the checkout.
v2.5.8 | App
OCT 2, 2023
+ 2Up-grades. The ability to set up a shared Payday for 2Up is here. You and your Player 2 can now switch between Available and Spendable Balance to see exactly how much you have to spend from 2Up before the next Payday. Tag team bills and spend smartly with 2Up Spendable Balance.
v2.5.7 | App
SEP 19, 2023
iOS
+ Blocking your card from watchOS should be easy, but not one step kinda easy. To curb Upsiders blocking their cards by accident, we've added in an extra step to the card block flow from your Apple Watch. A little more friction with the right amount of ease.

Android
+ Another day, another release. We've been hard at work polishing blemishes, exterminating critters & sprinkling in a healthy dose of Up magic.
v2.5.6 | App
SEP 4, 2023
+ In the spirit of achieving the simplest interest we're now including Maybuys and Save Up 1000 Challenges when you Combine Monthly Interest. A Saver of your choice is ready to handle receiving the entire load.

+ We've added some extra communications about specific scams when it counts. Expect to see related messaging in-app now and in the future.
v2.5.5 | App
AUG 23, 2023
+ We made a small blunder with your new Upcoming navigation. A lesson was learned and we've patched it right up.

Now, this is called a Neuralyzer. It's a gift from some friends from out of town. This red eye here will isolate the electronic impulses in your brains and more specifically the ones for memory. You didn't see nothin'.
v2.5.4 | App
AUG 21, 2023
+ Time for navigation revitalisation. We've consolidated your Upcoming tab and given it a new home. You'll now find all of your upcoming bills and Spending Insights in the one place. Tap 'Upcoming' at the top of your Activity feed to know what bills to expect before your next Pay Day. Navigating and calibrating your Spending & Insights made easy.
v2.5.3 | App
AUG 7, 2023
+ Bug fixes and performance improvements
v2.5.2 | App
AUG 7, 2023
+ The app is filled with improvements galore. As full as a centipede's sock drawer.
v2.5.1 | App
JUL 18, 2023
+ To fend off frostbite we're keeping our fingers working. The result? A copious amount of code typed out at lightning speed. The app is now running red hot. Update to enjoy bug fixes and relax in the warm glow of not so visible app improvements.
v2.5.0 | App
JUL 4, 2023
+ If seeing your savings & total balance is too enticing, hide them with Hidden Savers. You can still access your Savers when you need, but it's a whole lot easier to avoid digging deep when they can't be seen.

+ You now have the ability to undo a Cover or Forward by tapping into the transaction from your Activity feed. Less fuss, more power.

+ You can now link a contact to Pay Day. The moment your pay lands in your account, your Spendable Balance and Upcoming updates to match where you're at.
v2.4.31 | App
JUN 19, 2023
+ Did you know there are 8,800 known species of ants in the world? Another fun fact about bugs is that fewer now live in your Up app. Keep cool and carry on.
v2.4.30 | App
JUN 14, 2023
+ Cashless is cool, and we make that easy. Crashless is also cool, and we've made that easy too. Your app is now more stable and able.
v2.4.29 | App
JUN 5, 2023
iOS
+ Slices have come alive. Bask in live updates, right on your lock screen or Dynamic Island. Revel as your mates pay back each slice. See the action unfold as it happens, then rest easy when your riches are fully returned.

Android
+ Even in progress we need to pause and reflect. Our beautiful code base has returned from a massage and, though you can't quite pick it, it feels revitalised. Your app is fresh, calm and ready.
v2.4.28 | App
MAY 24, 2023
+ With one clean move you can now combine the interest you earn across all of your Savers. It's neat, it's clear, it's next level organised. To polish things up, tap on any Saver > tap 'Round Ups' > 'Combine Monthly Interest'. Go on. Give it a whirl.
v2.4.25 | App
MAY 15, 2023
+ Time for twin-turbo. Stack on another power up for you and your Player 2. 2Up Plastic cards are available to order now. Your co-op story has always been digital but this physical spender comes to you with sustainability in mind. Forged from 82% recycled material, every 2Up Plastic Card sold goes towards cleansing the oceans of trash with the help of our friends at Seabin. If your mission calls for it, summon yourself a card via the banner in your 2Up tab.
v2.4.24 | App
MAY 8, 2023
+ Tufting rugs, sinking mugs and wiping bugs. It's just what we do.
v2.4.23 | App
MAY 5, 2023
+ There's nothing worse than repeating yourself because of a bad connection. We've made sure that doesn't happen when you're telling your home loan story. You can start, stop and resume your application with ease again.
v2.4.21 | App
MAY 2, 2023
+ If you’re ready to make a move and buy a home that’s all your own, then pack up your stuff and pick up a Billy bookcase. We’ve laid out the Up Home welcome mat for new-to-you home buyers as well as refinancers. Start your new life in the Up Home button under the Up tab.

+ Just shopping? If you’d like to get an idea of what you can afford, join us in The Home Zone. Same button, same place in the app. Everything becomes clearer. Get an indication of how much you could borrow so you can focus your property search and give your plants the forever home they’ve always wanted.
v2.4.20 | App
APR 27, 2023
+ When the checkout bell tolls, which card will answer the call? You can now smoothly slide through a carousel of all your cards to copy the details you desire. Get around the whole gang. Grab Zap, Up Plastic or 2Up card details all from your 'Card Details' menu now.

+ We welcome a new class of unsung heroes to join the codebase. These bug fixes and back-end improvements continue to bring stability to the app, if we're honest, we wouldn't be where we are today without them. Go on, take a bow.
v2.4.18 | App
APR 5, 2023
+ Recentre your mind as we have recentred our codebases. Enjoy not the app who removes 10,000 bugs once but enjoy the app who removes bugs & adds back end improvements 10,000 times...
v2.4.17 | App
MAR 21, 2023
+ All good payments must come to an end. It's time to defeat the repeat. Now when creating a Repeating Payment you can have it automatically stop after a set number of payments. Open up your options when creating a payment to fine tune your financial forecast.
v2.4.16 | App
MAR 10, 2023
+ Rounded up a bug that was limiting BPAY payments, you can now BPAY like you used to.
v2.4.15 | App
MAR 9, 2023
+ Gaze out to a pristine lock screen. You can now add Up widgets to your iPhone lock screen. Enhance your already unparalleled productivity by having your Balances, Trackers and Savers all added to your lock screen and available at a glance. Breathtaking. When the mood strikes add a circular, rectangle or top line widget to your lock screen and complete your iOS 16 dream.
v2.4.13 | App
FEB 21, 2023
+ One thing lead to another and we didn't end up with a hot date for Valentines Day, so we instead used the time to pour our love into an update that keeps the good parts of the app great. In between working through our "commitment issues" and "emotional availability", we lovingly adjusted some padding and cleansed a whole heap of bugs from the code. Overall we're feeling better about everything. Time heals all wounds.
v2.4.12 | App
FEB 5, 2023
+ We gave Dad a call and he brought all the good tools over. All that needed fixing has now been fixed. The front door doesn't sound like a sick possum anymore, the washing machine runs like a dream, and the Up app's been hit with the Dyson, washed, and fully waxed. Please enjoy your thoroughly niced-up new Up app.
v2.4.11 | App
JAN 16, 2023
+ Now is not the time to start losing friends. To reduce the toll of the endless scroll we've installed the latest in search bar technology. Pull down on your Payments screen to quickly search for the exact Payment thread you seek. Start typing to find your best mate, pay that really good tradie again, or relive all your favourite rent payment memories. Search and you shall find.
v2.4.9 | App
DEC 12, 2022
+ Ho ho ho, it's the last Up release before the ho-lidays. Packaged up in today's release is a special secret gift but you can't open it yet. Maybe just give it a little shake and see if it's a book. Don't think it is though. We'll tap you when it's time. Catch ya soon legends.
v2.4.8 | App
NOV 28, 2022
+ Open your app and your mind. Awaken a new sense of spending insight.
We've overhauled Spending Insights to now offer you a financial reality in the timeline of your choosing. Monthly insights made room for insights by Pay Day, Year, Financial Year or a custom timeline.
Compare Insight periods with a swipe & observe your spending categories from above your feed. Trackers, tags and CSV export now fall in line with your time bending abilities. Where will your new insights take you?
v2.4.7 | App
NOV 14, 2022
+ Suddenly your app is feeling more attractive - What's this feeling coming over you? What's that smell? Is it the app? Did it get a hair cut? Is it wearing a new shirt?
Then, you spot it.
It's undeniable. Irresistible.
Up v2.X.X has had a series of small code upgrades not visible to customers, added for your in-app pleasure. It's going to be a hot summer.
v2.4.6 | App
OCT 27, 2022
+ For those about to save, we salute you. We've enthusiastically pushed some new pixels around to make life slightly sweeter for those taking the Save Up 1000 challenge. Please continue to increase your savings and happiness levels with this update.
v2.4.5 | App
OCT 25, 2022
+ Make it rain. With 2Up Reactions you can now create a shower of good feels or shame for your Player 2. Long press a transaction to show the one in your life who takes care of the shopping, or sorts out that flight, that you see them and love what they do. We wouldn't be true to our name if we made it rain down, so marvel as your selected emoji defies Newton's law and multiplies towards the heavens - big thanks to our anti-gravity division for that one.
v2.4.3 | App
OCT 12, 2022
+ Wish upon a star, wish upon a save. Maybuy's now custom cut and tailored perfectly to you. Add anything you like to your new Maybuy wishlist, then save for it when you're ready. Schedule a save day that works for your pay. Edit your Maybuys to keep them in sync with your needs and loves. So dream a little dream today.
v2.4.2 | App
SEP 28, 2022
+ We're not going to let you miss your shot to get closer to the top. Now if you lose the motivation in the moment & your weekly Save Up 1000 notification passes you by, we'll create a reminder in your activity feed. Answer the call, feel the burn, work up a healthy savings sweat.
+ Pay Splitting would occasionally not present you with the appropriate tools to make your split. We reinstalled some missing handles and you can now grab onto something to drag Pay Splitting sliders smoothly and reliably for textbook perfect split.
+ Impress your friends & take your seat at the head of the table. We've updated our Messages sticker pack with new stickers guaranteed to have the group chat begging for more.
v2.4.1 | App
SEP 14, 2022
+ Pay Splitting gets an upgrade for 2. From today peeling away parts of your pay is a shared experience. If you get paid into your Up account you can now automatically split your pay into your shared 2Up Savers. If getting paid into 2Up is for you, create Pay Splits to automatically send a big wad of financial love direct to your Player 2.
+ We've respectfully removed the boundaries for you and your Player 2. Now you can Cover and Forward purchases or received payments to any of your Savers. It's all on table. Cover from 2Up to your Spending. Forward from 2Up Spending to your own private Up Savers. It's all in your hands now.
+ Dynamic text size now flexes your Up app to your favoured visual settings. Spiffy.
v2.4.0 | App
AUGUST 29, 2022
+ Pull on an extra layer of security and save your savings from yourself. Locked Savers installs a 3-hour buffer between temptation and your hard-won savings. Tap the lock on a Saver to seal your savings in the vault. Locked up, your safe continues to receive deposits but busting it wide open will require expert unlocking. Never work alone; choose a mate to complete your crew and they can unlock you early if you're in a rush.
+ Reacts are the sixth love language. Open another line of communication and send an emoji when your Player 2 pays for something with 2Up. Long press a transaction to send a little love token when your Player 2 takes care of the bills or plans a holiday.
v2.3.2 | App
AUGUST 15, 2022
+ Get there faster. Long press on any transaction to reveal a tasty buffet of options. Slice it, Cover it, Create a Regular and more. We spoil you.
+ No ragrets guaranteed. Add a new Maybuy Widget to your phone’s home screen so you can count down the days till you can lock down the thing you love. Or not. If those acid wash jeans have lost their shine, stash that cash back in your Saver. Easy.
+ Updating or deleting a scheduled payment used to be about as easy as finding a mate with a dead phone at a festival. So we made some changes. Now you can edit or cancel a scheduled payment right from the Upcoming tab. Just tap on those three little dots and the power is yours.
v2.3.1 | App
AUGUST 1, 2022
Are your eyes bigger than your budget? Introducing Maybuy: a way to buy the things you actually love, with money you actually have.
When you find something you love online, hit the share button, add it to Up and close your browser tabs in confidence.
Pick a savings schedule that suits your style. Check in on your saves anytime – you can easily change your mind. Get the best and walk away from the rest, this shopping spree is under your control. Save Now. Maybuy Later. More on Maybuy at up.com.au/maybuy
v2.3.0 | App
JULY 21, 2022
+ Hand in hand heading down a 2 way street, it's getting 2hot2handle. Covers and Forwards join an all star cast of 2Up features. Now you can Cover and Forward purchases between your Up and 2Up spending. Dinner for 2 paid for only by you? Long press a transaction to Cover the $$ with your Player 2. Sharing is caring.
v2.2.20 | App
JULY 7, 2022
+ Text in some widgets was displaying smaller than intended - an unfortunate sign of weakness in the wild. Some inflation of stroke weight and a fluffing of feathers means balances in Widgets display larger and are effective in deterring an opportunistic predator.
+ Purchase receipt screens weren't as optimized as they should be. So rather than leaving it be quicker to produce a physical receipt from your pocket, we enhanced some unseen code and we're happy to announce this has resulted in slightly less waiting time for you and delighted users everywhere. 5 star result.
v2.2.18 | App
JUNE 21, 2022
+ Some Upsider profile pictures were displaying in greyscale or limited colour palettes. Although considered 'edgy' on social networks in 2008, we've updated our colour code to show the full spectrum. Our (and your) true colours are now shining through.
+ Our favourite in app Perk-Up mug broke. Unlike small serrated ceramic, we managed to pick up the pieces of code and now if you score a free coffee through Perk-Up your mug will percolate and animate once more.
+ Our screen readers were a little too in depth, often reading things that simply weren't there. With some better direction and a few kind words, VoiceOver will only read things that are on the screen. Like a screen reader should.
v2.2.17 | App
MAY 23, 2022
+ Informed consent is where it’s at, and open relationships demand A+ communication. We’ve added some push notifications when you, or your player 2, change Open Banking settings on your accounts. Always practice safe banking.
+ Speaking of relationships, Afterpay and Zap cards now play better together. Your Upcoming feed will now update whenever you make a payment. Go forth with a shiny, fresh and up to date feed.
v2.2.16 | App
MAY 10, 2022
+ We weren’t saying it best. In fact, some would say we were saying nothing at all. Now when you’re alerted of an attempted charge, we’ll tell you if it was on your Up plastic, Zap or 2Up card. We’ll catch you, wherever you fall.
+ Utilising the latest advancements in cut, copy, paste technology, we're now able to scan your clipboard for copied BSB and account details as you make a payment. The details you need are sorted, separated and pre-filled, leaving you with nothing but saved time. We set ’em up so you can knock ’em down. Go get it champ!
+ Making the leap from hand to wrist, your Zap Card is now supported on watchOS. Staring out alongside Up and 2Up cards, you can now block and/or unblock your digital Zap card from your favourite wrist mounted digital device.
v2.2.15 | App
APRIL 26, 2022
+ Early winter cleaning anyone? We’ve swatted some bugs and improved our logic around notifications and savers. Speaking of cleaning, our latest 'I wish I’d known' content about homes, specifically moving day, is ready for your eyes. Find that and several other cosy morsels of home-related content now snuggly tucked into your Home Saver.
v2.2.14 | App
APRIL 12, 2022
+ What do you do when you reach the pinnacle of performance and improvements? You go push harder, and go higher. Just like a refreshing breeze from the summit, we’ve loaded the app with unseen but delightful enhancements. Feel these cool code changes lightly brush through your hair as you glide effortlessly through the app. Savour life’s little moments.
v2.2.13 | App
MAR 27, 2022
+ Don’t settle for less, give the best a mate can get. With added performance and prize improvements there’s never been a better time to Hook Up A Mate. The lines are clear and they’re ready for your call. 1 mate is all it takes. T&Cs at up.com.au/huam
+ Make your next step a short one. Unleashed from the confines of a sub menu, you can now Slice, Cover, or create a Regular transaction from the bottom of your receipt. Life is now wide and limitless.
+ After a deep cleanse and exfoliation, estimated Upfront costs in Home Deposit Savers are clearer for those buying a first home. Beautiful & Beneficial.
+ Significant slide and glide improvements means you can now re-order your Home Saver or Save Up 1000 challenge in a list of Savers. Create your own harmony and add 'Financial Feng Shui' to your resume.
v2.2.12 | App
MAR 16, 2022
+ A tale of two cards that doesn’t start with waiting for the postie. Now you can instantly create your own Zap Card - a new digital-only card that's wired directly to your Up account. Zap Card securely does your digital bidding, buying and bill paying online with a new set of card details. Pay in store by adding to Apple Pay and never misplace a physical card again. New Upsiders can go digital by default, but if you no longer have a place in your heart or your wallet for plastic, download a Zap Card to your app from the Cards menu today.
v2.2.11 | App
MAR 9, 2022
+ For some Upsiders it wasn't safe to swim. Instead of going off the deep end we've improved circulation, enhanced coding and maintained even particle levels so you can take a dip in your Saver Pool without a crash. Remember, play it cool by the pool this summer.
v2.2.10 | App
MAR 2, 2022
+ We're busy keeping things shiny and tidy just for you. We've tucked in some sheets and fixed that broken door that was bugging you. Digital air quality is high and our code chakras are aligned. Update for a clearer view but focus on being the best version of yourself.
v2.2.9 | App
FEB 14, 2022
+ Dream of having a grand on hand? Save $1000 in a year with the new Save Up 1000 Challenge. Strap into the hot seat and power your way through seven levels of weekly saves. Knock down a little each week to save a lot. Stored safely away in the Save Up vault, your cash awaits, committed to the completion of your challenge. Weekly reminders will keep you in shape so you're a winner. Every. Time. Have you got enough in the tank to go the distance? Outwit. Outplay. Outlast. Sprint to the Savers tab to join the challenge and find out what you're made of.
v2.2.8 | App
JAN 31, 2022
+ Rise to your challenge. Get more options when you're challenged with Mastercard 3D secure making purchases online. Feel flexible wearing two layers of online security. Now we'll tap you with an in app prompt, email or SMS to prove that it's you. Security for every occasion.
v2.2.7 | App
JAN 17, 2022
+ Take control of your long term goal. If you've got visions of owning a cool crib or your forever home, you can now create a Home Saver to get started saving up for your dream deposit.
Work out what you have and what you need to succeed, in the hot housing market. Tell us the property price and we'll map out your personal savings timeline. Whether solo or with your Player 2, get your home savings moving from Struggle Town to Easy Street with Auto Transfers, Round Ups and a Home buyers guide.
+ Be the ultimate tag team and undisputed kings or queens of the ring. Now create custom transaction tags to track spending with your Player 2 in 2Up.
v2.2.6 | App
DEC 15, 2021
+ Your calculations are complete. View your 2021 UpYear in review now. Get a personalised yearly report of how your money moved this year on Up.
Thanks to every Upsider for another stellar year. We hope your 2021 experience was out of this world.
v2.2.5 | App
DEC 14, 2021
+ Some self care for your special second source (of income).
You can now mark some investing platforms as funding accounts. Unlock the ability to pay split another piece of your hustle puzzle.
+ Don't mind us, we're just hiding some super secret pressies in the shed. You can't have them right now but we promise your special day will be extra special. Only a few more sleeps.
v2.2.4 | App
NOV 29, 2021
The Up office just got through the coldest November stretch in 167 years and came down with a few bugs to boot. After copious amounts of code deploys and vitamin C your favourite financial app is well rested and reset for warmer days ahead.
v2.2.2 | App
NOV 16, 2021
+ Up's got the same thrill but now with more fill. We've moved on from the stroke to a fuller, pampered and plumper 60 degree lifestyle. Today our logo gets a 5-star paint bucket treatment all the way from the app icon to the transfer drawers. Don't be obtuse, try a different angle. It's time to get reacquainted with the 3 equal sides you know and love in a whole new way.
+ A plan for when things don't go to plan. Now you can subscribe to in-app updates when a feature or functionality suffers an unexpected outage. Get greater visibility if something's not working plus a play-by-play direct from the control room as we gracefully recover. Let us deal with the lemons in life, we'll let you know when everything is smooth sailing once more.
v2.2.1 | App
NOV 11, 2021
+ We found out we weren't treating ourselves so well in a few places. We've poured ourselves a bath, lit the candles and relaxed.
v2.2.0 | App
NOV 3, 2021
+ Direct from the oven and served hot. Get your purchases perfectly sliced. Say sì to Slices. Now you can split the cost of any purchase or payment with your mates on Up. Take anything you've paid for and slice it up as payment requests to other Upsiders.
+ Slices can flex any way you need, slice by dollars, percent, or keep it fair with equal shares. This is a share plate where you won't get burned. You'll always know who's paid back cause your pizza progress chart fills as more money rolls in. Start slicing from any purchase notification or receipt from your activity feed.
+ We've made some more room for your Player 2. Now get all your shared spending and Savers data flowing through to any Open Banking supported application or service.
v2.1.9 | App
OCT 28, 2021
+ Up wasn't playing nicely with iPhone 6 so we all had a snack and a hug. Thanks for bearing with this disruption while we got everything back online and all sorted out.
v2.1.8 | App
OCT 25, 2021
+ Hello... is it search you're looking for? Now the power is yours to find the thing you need from your feed. Use Search to find payments, purchases and people without having to go for a scroll. Search smarter, start typing in the info or purchase amount you need and we'll do the digging. Pull down Quick Actions from your activity feed to start searching. May you find what you seek.
v2.1.7 | App
OCT 11, 2021
+ Set your Splits in stone. Now you can add exact $ amounts for the important stuff when Pay Splitting into your Savers, and let the rest of your pay peel off by a percentage. Stand back and admire your picture perfect budget.
v2.1.6 | App
SEP 27, 2021
+ We’ve injected some social stimulus to iOS notifications. Now Payments notifications will display GIFs in all their looping glory. Know that your carefully selected and probably hilarious GIF will land even in previews. We now leave the many creative possibilities up to you.
+ Co-op savers rejoice. 2Up Saver Pools now show your Player 2's profile picture. May the digital presence of their fine self swimming in savings soup help motivate you towards those shared financial goals.
+ Accessibility is better for those using VoiceOver. We’ve surfaced elements you need and hidden some of the noisier ones. As always, hit us up in Talk To Us with ideas on making Up better.
+ A bit of digital grease on our animation’s hinges means balances, chats and GIFs are moving super smooth and looking extra lovely.
v2.1.4 | App
SEP 14, 2021
+ We’ve added extra Pay Day bling for your budgeting pleasure. Now you can see your Spendable balance in widgets and watchOS complications.
+ We’ve also added bi-monthly pay cycles, so if you get paid on (say) the first and fifteenth —welcome to the Pay Day family. We’re huggers, be warned
v2.1.3 | App
SEP 6, 2021
+ A pesky bug has been removed from International Payments. Wise once again performs bug free as intended.
v2.1.2 | App
AUG 31, 2021
+ Just like when your relatives used to tuck a few bills into the annual birthday card, we've rolled out some seriously celebratory code that could make your special day just a little more special.
+ Now when you open up your digital Upperversary card and share with friends on socials we might $neak $ome $urprises your way. Love always from Uncle + Auntie Up xoxo.
v2.1.1 | App
AUG 16, 2021
+ Pay Day took a pit stop and is running like it's on rails. If your transfers or time zones were bumpy before, they should now be smooth and serene. Hit Talk To Us if your ride is less than the perfection we expect and demand.
+ If you're a real custom commander we've now added support for Trackers and Recent Transactions in the Shorcuts app. Use Shortcuts in iOS to create custom workflows; check in on your spending Trackers when opening an app, get your last 5 transactions when setting an alarm, or just talk it out with Siri. If you build it, it will run.+ Pay Day took a pit stop and is running like it's on rails. If your transfers or time zones were bumpy before, they should now be smooth and serene. Hit Talk To Us if your ride is less than the perfection we expect and demand.
v2.1.0 | App
AUG 2, 2021
+ A gift for you, and a place for two.
You can now create 2Up Savers to share with your Player 2. Whether it's a home to call your own or those tickets for a band you've been waiting literally years to see; here's a place where you can set savings goals and stash cash together.
Taking the same great flavour from their solo Saver cousins, 2Up Savers work how you'd expect. Tap the create Saver button and now we'll give you a choice between Saver styles.
v2.0.5 | App
JUL 26, 2021
+ Avoid the budget blow out blues, breeze from pay to pay. Get paid into Up and add your Pay Day to see what you can safely spend while leaving enough aside for bills. Switch your balance from 'Available' to 'Spendable' and see how much you've got just for you. Always know what Upcoming bills and transfers are due before you get paid. Put your hard earned cash on cruise control.
+ Every payment has its place. Scheduled and Repeating Payments can now be assigned a permanent spending category and will reflect in your monthly insights. Recurring rent payments have never felt so organised.
+ Don't stop when you hit the top. Now when creating a new Saver you'll get some serving suggestions of things to save for. Alternatively, keep being you and choose your own goals.
+ While it's still hard for two people to share one watch, you can now add your 2Up Shared Spending balance as a complication on watchOS.
v2.0.4 | App
JUL 12, 2021
+ Take the stress out of the 2Up top up. Now you can set up Automated Transfers in or out of your 2Up and personal spending. Pull down your 2Up quick actions to create a recurring transfer in either direction. Relax as you regularly move money in to spend as 2, or pay one out and just spend as you.
+ Burst out a big “Bula” and welcome Fijian Dollars to the currency crew for international payments. Now send FJD to friends and family living in the Soft Coral Capital of the World.
+ A brutish bug was pushing some peoples passcode keyboards up in one corner. We've fixed this outgoing and aggressive behaviour and passcodes are now free to be entered correctly.
v2.0.3 | App
JUN 28, 2021
This release we're cleaning Up like Mum is coming over.
+ Screen readers will now have an easier time reading some explainers. Thanks to the Upsiders who pointed that one out.
+ Next time you Hook Up a Mate rest assured they're in the finest hands. The improvements are so good you won't even know they're there. The experience is now nicer than it was before.
v2.0.2 | App
JUN 15, 2021
+ Some for you and some for 2. You can now split a % of your pay directly into your 2Up spending account, with Pay Splitting. Set the rules and we'll automatically split your pay day cash between your Savers, and both your solo and 2Up spending accounts. Will you split off a small portion of pay, or set sail the fattest of stacks? The decision on that divide rests with you.
+ More wrist related improvements means you can now view your 2Up spending activity, check on shared Trackers, and tap into 2Up card controls all on watchOS.
v2.0.1 | App
MAY 31, 2021
+ 2Up is rolling like it's on rails and we're real ready for you right now. The early days are over. Access all areas and invite your Player 2 now to instantly join forces. You'll be ready to fight finances in record time with your new shared account.
+ There's room in this widget for two. Now add a 2Up account widget to your home screen to view your shared spending balance at all times, for better, for worse, for richer or for poorer.
+ Some meticulous menu methodising has resulted in account details once again being found under the Up tab. View, copy or share your details with undeniable confidence.
+ Face it, this is something you'll want to watch. You can now add your Trackers as complications to watchOS faces. Your budget never misses a beat.
v2.0.0 | App
MAY 17, 2021
+ The page has turned. A new chapter begins. Adventure awaits you and your most trusted companion. Welcome to 2Up: a new way to join forces, battle bills side by side, take aim at expenses, and weave a shared financial tale. Registration is open now.
+ Ready for the challenge? Invite your Player 2 in-app and register for 2Up early access. Once you're perfectly paired, your story awaits. We will let you know when your 2Up tale is ready to start.
+ We can't send you on a quest without a power-up! Quick Actions are your new quick draw. Pull down in your Activity feed to add money or show your card details.
v1.19.2 | App
MAY 10, 2021
+ This time around we bought bulk Windex, dug around under the sink for a pair of pink gloves, and gave Mr Clean some real work to do. We're making room for new features and new energy.
v1.19.1 | App
APR 27, 2021
+ In an effort to reduce drag on slow networks we've added the code equivalent of a new body kit and spoiler. The app will now have better performance in less than ideal network conditions. We too live our lives a quarter mile at a time.
v1.19.0 | App
APR 19, 2021
+ Slide the seat all the way back. Cruise into controlling your spending with Trackers. Now you can set a Tracker on any spending category to keep you from busting the budget. Set an upper spending limit, keep on top of it and know how long and how much $$ you've got to go.
+ You'll never walk alone. Get notifications throughout the month with personalised updates on how your Trackers are… tracking. Stress less, we won't put you on blast for a budget blow out.
+ Don't get floored by figures. Add a new Category Tracker Widget to your phone's home screen to track your spending outside the app and through the eyes of your best triangular tracking pal. Add a Zap tracker widget for every Tracker.
+ Know where to give a little and where to get a little. You can now check your average spend for all categories in your Monthly Insights. Always see how your current month's spending compares to your monthly average.
+ Keep your friends close, but your savings closer. Add any of your Savers as a complication for your Apple Watch. A watched pot always boils.
v1.18.3 | App
MAR 30, 2021
+ Sometimes gifs speak louder than words. Payment gifs let you send and request money with a little extra pizzazz. Up: now with 75% more meme wars.
+ We accessed our home improvement Saver and did a Bunnings run. Little fixes and nicer dimensions have the whole app looking a touch more snazzy.
v1.18.2 | App
MAR 15, 2021
+ Respond, resolve & relax. Cop some support with an extra serving of speed. You can now reply to Talk To Us chats directly from a notification without opening the app. No words? Just mark as read so you can stay on the go, but always in the know.
+ Our International Payment pals have had a name and brand makeover. We've updated our app to highlight their new style. No surprise from Wise, they're glowing.
+ Previously Weekly Spend Summaries were too big for your wrist to handle. We've used the good wrapping so all text is now readable on watchOS. Mondays aren't so bad now.
v1.18.1 | App
MAR 1, 2021
+ Once again, let's sparkle Up your home screen with some widget magic. Our new Insights iOS widget will show you where you're at with spending on Good Life, Personal, Home and Transport. Initialise the spending visualiser to experience your own data driven particle pyramid without leaving the comfort of your home (screen). Your spending's looking special.
+ We got out the long duster and a fresh can of Mortein. It was time to deep clean those bugs, and the corners of Up are now cobweb-free.
v1.18.0 | App
FEB 15, 2021
+ Got a mate that owes you money? It’s that one posting selfies from Byron Bay right now, isn’t it? When the sacred bonds of mateship aren’t quite cutting it, you can now request money from your mates on Up. No more hopes and prayers — put in a request and get paid the money you’re owed quickly.
+ A real quick tidy up around the cards screen has resulted in slightly more leg room for all visual elements involved. Relaxing no doubt.
v1.17.4 | App
FEB 10, 2021
+ We've cured some code and corrected a bit of unexpected behaviour when some devices were making a payment. The expected payments experience rages on for all.
v1.17.3 | App
FEB 1, 2021
+ We're turning up the heat on Hook Up a Mate. For the month of Feb, invite your friends and you could score up to $15 each. It’s the summer we’ll never forget. T&Cs @ up.com.au/huam
+ Keep that payments screen clean. You can now delete unwanted payment threads and contacts from your list. Find your delete key by tapping the options icon in a payment thread. But take care - once that history is gone, it’s gone forever.
+ We improved some open spaces and screen heights, and freshened the emojis up a bit. Next we’re going to choose a nice indoor plant.
v1.17.2 | App
DEC 7, 2020
+ Now you can long press on a Talk to Us thread to archive the chat. The threads might be gone, but we'll always have the memories. TTYL.
+ International transactions will once again get the Round Ups treatment. You might see a small lift in savings, a round balance & a release of tension in your shoulders, this is expected.
+ We politely asked some bugs to find alternative arrangements. Don’t worry, we gave them heaps of time and wrote them a reference.
+ Keep your app up to date to get an early present this year. We'll keep it under the tree for now. You can't open it yet but you can look at the box.
v1.17.1 | App
NOV 22, 2020
+ It’s your app and you make the decisions. If you’re getting unwanted payments from another Upsider, head to your payment thread and block them. (You can unblock them whenever you want.)
+ Sometimes things don’t go to plan. If your instant payment is failing because of a widespread technical issue you can now just schedule it for later. Once we’re up and running again we’ll get your money where it needs to go.
+ We’ll be your dispute detective. We’re now collecting more information up front so we ask you less questions later. Start a dispute directly from the trouble transaction: we’ll keep you updated from there.
v1.17.0 | App
NOV 5, 2020
+ People powered Payments. Our reworked payment experience makes it faster and easier to pay your existing contacts. Use the new Search and you shall quickly find the contacts you seek. Tap 'Pay Someone' to get going.
+ Find your mates on the Upside. You can now import your phone contacts and easily find and pay your mates on Up. For those yet to see the light you can attempt to pay them via mobile PayID or quickly shoot them an invite to join the party.
+ Speaking of which, Hook Up a Mate now shows you a list of which of your mates are yet to sign Up. Call on your circle of contacts to invite with just a tap and quickly spread the word. You've always been the savvy one in the group.
v1.16.0 | App
OCT 26, 2020
+ Home sweet home screen. Now you can get more at a glance with Up iOS14 Widgets. Sprinkle a small section of your home screen layout with a window into your financial life. Check your balance and last activity, place a specific Saver front and centre to track your progress or lay down a stack to see an overview of all your Savers. Complete with deep links back to your important screens, happiness is just a widget away. Welcome home.
+ Here’s a new paver in our payments path. Decide in your Payment Settings if other Upsiders in your phone contacts can see that you’re using Up. Your future network will be as big as you make it.
+ Some regulars charges were becoming a bit too regular. Now when you confirm a new regular charge we’ll only add it once. They may only live once, but done right, once is enough.
v1.15.4 | App
OCT 12, 2020
+ Hit the spending speedway and deck out your digital wallet faster. Add your card to Apple Pay directly from the wallet app with the help of some iOS14 grease. No need to wait for your physical card.
+ Do it for you. If you’ve been blessed with a new number and phone, there’s now a shorter path to get back into your account - just add your passcode and recovery code. If you don’t have them, no stress. Look over your shoulder, we’ll be there.
+ We’ve simplified notification preferences. Choose your own information adventure in the app settings.
+ Bugs removed and great things made better. Looking good, feeling good.
v1.15.3 | App
SEP 28, 2020
+ Slap another lock on the door and add another agent to your security detail. Now when a new device is registered with your account, the rest of your devices will get an alert. If this was you, party on. Wasn't you? Push the button. We'll stop payments leaving, and lock down access on all your registered devices.
+ Mind your step, baby got gap. A thorough reshuffle of the Up tab has resulted in a more satisfying set of settings and absolutely no touching between screen swipes. No exceptions - this gap has intentionally been left blank.
+ We've dusted off the app welcome mat. Now you'll be greeted with an ever so slightly updated logo on iOS & watchOS. Come on in, continuity is key.
+ In the spirit of supporting the creation of punctuation we've put an end to some key-based keyboard bugs stopping special characters in sign up.
+ Many more of your favourite things have been further enhanced & improved, making them more likely to remain your favourite things. We live to give.
v1.15.2 | App
SEP 2, 2020
+ Zoom in. Increase transaction transparency. You can now see how your card was used for any given purchase. Did you tap, swipe, punch in a pin or buy online? Get a complete picture of how your purchase entered this world.
+ If an essence of reference is your preference then please. Take a seat. When sending cash via Osko you can now tap on options to add a reference ID to your payment. 35 characters are all yours to reference a bill, or say I love you.
+ We're getting in early with spring cleaning; fixed some screen strangeness for notched iPhones, improved layout on smaller devices, and winter bugs have been gently re-homed.
v1.15.1 | App
AUG 24, 2020
+ Breathe deep and slowly recline. We've made some upgrades to our Wise international payments lounge, including sign up fixes and special character input. Continue paying overseas, now with 25% more ease.
+ If you weren't feeling elated before then you will be now. We've updated our sticker pack for the Messages app. Emote, react and slap on a sticker when a friend sends you a zinger. Choose with care from eight (!) new digital stickers.
+ Don't die wondering. We've added the exact time and date of generation to your monthly statements - now you're always in the know.
v1.15 | App
AUG 9, 2020
+ Make breaking down borders a breeze. International payments powered by Wise have arrived. Get a fast, easy and cheap way to move your money overseas. Strap in for 48 different currencies, no surprise fees, fast set up, and a whole lot of easy. Relax and move freely around the cabin, paying friends and family overseas has officially reached cruising altitude.
+ Monthly Insights will now tell you if you're on track to be the hero of your savings story with total change in savers, total savings in or out, total payments and total purchases. You're a professor of precision with total clarity.
v1.14.2 | App
AUG 4, 2020
+ Shoot quick and from the hip, you're the real sheriff in town. Now you can initiate a Cover for your purchases and a Forward for your deposits right from your notifications. Long press on a notification to get started.
+ Stockpile for your lifestyle. Pay splitting is getting a smaller percentile. With Pay splitting enabled you can now instantly carve up your payday cash to the nearest 1% and choose your own savings adventure. We'll also be telling you where that money came from, labelling the source of every split in your saver.
+ Calling all daredevil devs and exploratory engineers. Our API is officially open for business. It's your data, so have at it (securely) and go build that confetti cannon that fires on payday. Head to developer.up.com.au to get started.
+ It's dry season and the pools are shrinking. We've brought down the size of Saver pools so you can see a little more transaction action. You'll see some better pool performance but other than that - same great recipe; same great flavour.
v1.14.1 | App
JUL 20, 2020
+ We've switched up the save. When you click 'transfer money' in a Saver, the default option will now be to transfer money into a Saver, not out. Savin'. It's what we do when we can't go anywhere or do anything anyway.
+ Sometimes merchants put a hold on your money. Now we'll be notifying you if they change the hold amount. If they touch your money, you'll know about it.
+ Bugs-b-gone. Our locked-down Melbourne devs needed some caaaalm so they did some approved exercise. Swatting bugs and working on some renos. Inside. On computers. Stay safe fam.
v1.14.0 | App
JUN 29, 2020
+ The applause is deafening. Here's a little extra support from the sidelines. Now you'll get a notification when you've hit 25%, 50% and 75% of your target Saver goal. Just a gentle reminder that you're on your way to Savings greatness. Hit 100% of your goal to really get the party started.
+ Dive in, the water's just right. Saver Pools are a new way to visually track and play with your hard saved cash. Numbers and graphs can start to look all the same. Pump some money into any of your savers and watch it turn into a buzzing soup. Jump into any of your Savers to take a dip in your digital pool of funds.
+ We've upped the pressure and are now pumping more info into our widget. See your Spending balance and last transaction, then expand to see balances across your Savers. Another tool in the kit to keep you on top.
v1.13.9 | App
JUN 15, 2020
+ Go ahead, take your time, take as long as you need.
Now Auto Transfers from Savers will hit the pause button when there's not enough money to make the move.
Resume your regular Automated Transfers right away with a tap or take a little longer and resume at a later date. We'll keep your settings warm until you come back.
+ Let's get that volume a little bit louder now. You can now spread the word of Up further and faster. Use your $Upname to create a custom Hook up a Mate URL to share with your mates online or off. Jump into the app to activate and start extending your Hook up a Mate reach. All the regular invite bonus' still apply, be sure to check out up.com.au/huam for the full T&Cs.
v1.13.6 | App
MAY 28, 2020
+ Become the revert expert. Introducing our first ever feature with Ctrl+Z. You can now undo a transfer to or from your Saver with a quick tap. We don't make mistakes, just happy little accidents.
+ We'll no longer exempt the attempt. Cop an injection of new activity into your feed. You'll now receive a notification & an activity item for Attempted charges. If a merchant has attempted to charge your card and was not successful, you'll be the first to know. Rejoice, you have remained in the loop.
v1.13.5 | App
MAY 4, 2020
+ The fast just got faster. Now you can pay an Upsider using only their $Upname, nothing else. Moving these $$ on our own tracks means we can get some serious speed. As usual shoot an Upsider payment right back instantly. Check out the new 'Pay an Upsider' payment option. The real mccoy, a true Up2Up experience
+ You used to say it best when you said nothing at all. Say goodbye to the sound of silence and prepare to have the last word. You can now reply to a received Upsider payment with an Emoji or a message. Cheers for getting lunch Dan, ur a champ.
v1.13.4 | App
APR 21, 2020
+ Good deeds aren't done dirt cheap. This time we put up more for the hook up. Hook up a Mate invitees can now earn an additional $5 reward by making 5 purchases in their first 30 days. Get up to a cool $10 for you and the mates you invite. It pays to be a good mate. Full T&Cs @ up.com.au/huam
+ Sometimes we were repeating ourselves when it came to TouchID prompts. 2 seemed a bit excessive. We've calmed our farm and we'll only ask once from now on.
+ Our transfer between savers draw needed a little bit more room to flex. Animations in & out are now 113% smoother and less likely to glitch. More move means more groove.
v1.13.2 | App
MAR 29, 2020
+ Less steps means less stress. It's recommended you strap in because this new money mover is built for speed. Barriers are broken - You can now transfer money between Savers. Tap on any of your Savers to get your hands on the new 'Transfer money' button. Select your 2 chosen Savers and make your move. Well played.
+ We're picking up what you're putting down. For some new subscriptions we'll now ask if you've just signed up for a recurring charge before you've even made your first full payment. We'll go ahead and pop those upcoming charges in your Upcoming tab where they belong.
v1.13.1 | App
MAR 9, 2020
Here's one to remember. App release notes compilation volume 9154 is out now for your visual pleasure. Featuring all your favourite release notes, such as; "Bug fixes", "Performance enhancements", and no good compilation is complete without the all time classic, "Feature Improvements".
Get yourself up to date today and instantly elevate your emotional status from 'mildly comfortable' to 'Pure bliss'.
Don't sleep on this one. The view is clear and the water is bug free. Giddyup.
v1.13.0 | App
MAR 2, 2020
Here's two flexible money moves to add to your repertoire that will keep your accounts looking sharp. Introducing Covers and Forwards - the verbs your money has been missing until today.
+ Don't look back. Forwards will now allow you to instantly move any deposit or received payment to where it belongs. Move deposits along to any of your Savers with just a long press and a tap. The easiest heavy lifting you'll ever do.
+ Summon your Savings. Covers will now allow you to cover a purchase using funds from any of your Savers. Long press on your recent takeaway transaction to cover it from your 'Gym Membership' Saver and instantly your balance is topped up to its former glory. Money now moves with you.
+ Transfers for WatchOS are here. Your wrist is now infinitely stronger. Move money to or from a Saver without breaking a sweat. Use the Digital Crown to dial it just the way you like it.
v1.12.0 | App
FEB 10, 2020
+ You shall NOT remain nameless. Lay claim to your Upname! You can now create your very own Upname, a 15 character unique handle only you can wield. This title has a second meaning, you'll get a brand new @up.me PayID once your Upname has been claimed. Define who you are but choose wisely. Once a name is gone, it's gone!
+ Your Upcoming payments will be more alert but not alarmed. From now on you'll get a notification 1 day before a payment is due, not 2. That's 24 more hours of you-time, you've earned it.
+ We fixed a bug where your face was sending you into an infinite loop - not ideal. Now if FaceID fails to register you'll be prompted to enter your passcode instead. No more waiting in the infinite abyss for nothing.
v1.11.1 | App
FEB 3, 2020
+ Foreign currency and conversion rate will now display on international transaction receipts. It’s the travel gift you always wanted. Almost as good as that suede travel neck pillow from Nan.
+ Love smooth high frame rate animations? Of course you do. Well, we’ve peppered them through out your activity feed. Be amazed as transactions enter your feed with the force of a typhoon and the grace of a gazelle. You only live once.
+ Be not afraid of going slowly; be afraid of only standing still. When making a payment to a BSB and Acc number you can now choose to send it lightning fast via Osko or take it down a gear with a slower traditional Bank transfer. Play it your way.
v1.11.0 | App
DEC 16, 2019
We’ve managed to sneak in one more gift before this decade is done for. Thank you to all you amazing Upsiders for a ripping 2019.
+ We’d like to welcome 16 very special digits to this digital party. Your favourite numbers have arrived! You can now view, copy and paste your Up debit card numbers right from inside the app. Don’t reach for your wallet, reach for the stars.
v1.10.2 | App
DEC 13, 2019
+ Tis the good season of gift giving, and you know what? This season is looking brighter for the inviter. We’ve made some changes to Hook Up a Mate that will sweeten the deal. Give your mates the gift of Up this Christmas and savour the new reward in app.
Fixed:
- We plugged a tear in the very fabric of time itself. New Upsiders won’t have any problem with the birthday date picker skipping forward a day and changing the outcome of their sign up. The rules of time travel aren’t meant to be broken.
v1.10.1 | App
DEC 3, 2019
Welcome to bug huntin’ season. It's a big season of bugs and gosh darn have we bagged our selves some winners. Things are calmer in the app, order is being restored and your journey continues on, bug free. Party on.
v1.10.0 | App
NOV 21, 2019
+ The bitter taste has never been better. A testament to the perfect pour. An aroma that fills the heart has found its way into the hotter-than-hell version 1.10.0.

Gather round the table. It's just about time to perk up.
+ Oh, and we killed a bunch of bugs that were causing trouble. The App now works better and we are less troubled. Win-Win!
v1.9.3 | App
NOV 7, 2019
Time for a little money magic. Automate your way to a better day with Auto transfers.
+ Shift your Savers into gear & automatically move money from your spend account to any one of your savers. Just let us know the frequency and the amount, we'll take care of all the heavy lifting.
+ Put that thing down; flip it and reverse it. Turn Auto Transfers on its head and move money from your Savers to your spend account, you guessed it…Automatically. Set yourself an allowance so you don’t spend tomorrows money, today.
v1.9.2 | App
OCT 29, 2019
+ CSV is now EZY. Export your monthly transactions in your all-time favourite spreadable sheet format. Cells, columns and all. Find it hanging out in the more options menu of your Monthly Summary. Data is knowledge and knowledge is power.
+ We've cranked the voltage and extended the range of income identification. You'll now be able to identify Pension and Family benefits payments as income so you can unlock Pay Day features like Pay splitting.
v1.9.0 | App
OCT 16, 2019
It's all the right ingredients to make your pay day a great day. Get on the good foot from the start.
You can now slice and dice incoming payments from your funding account or your employer with Pay Splitting:
+ Set your split for the ultimate serving suggestion. Choose what % of $ will automatically split to each of your Savers. Let those funding payments and pay day earnings walk right on in. We'll tell 'em where to go.
+ A split today is a split for the future. We'll remember your Split Preferences so we can get you to your savings goals a bit faster. Get a breakdown of your payment split in your activity feed. A real set and forget.
v1.8.1 | App
SEP 24, 2019
You'll have to speak up, we're annihilating some bugs here:
+ We've fixed a bug where you could accidentally dismiss a chat when scrolling back. We swear we weren't trying to hang up on you.
+ We were leaving some of you hanging when using your fingerprint. We've made some tweaks to biometric step ups & this will be the first step to setting the record straight.
+ Salary ID had been improved & we'll now display some extra info with each salary payment.
v1.8.0 | App
SEP 11, 2019
+ Live in the moment, or live it later, up to you. Scheduled Payments have arrived. Specify a specific date and time for your outgoing payment to be sent. Your future self is proud of you for thinking ahead, well done.
+ Feel like history is repeating? You can now repeat payments every day, week, fortnight or month. That's working smart, not hard.
+ Let's make Pay day a great(er) day. You can now identify your salary and get a better view of those delicious incoming pays + correct company names and logos. Money in is a win.
+ Our older icons have moved onto retirement. We thank them for 10 months of loyal service, what a ride. We've brought in some new & fresh icons to every one of our categories. Here's to moving with the times.
v1.7.0 | App
SEP 5, 2019
+ There are no mistakes, just happy accidents. We're really going to explore the colour palette on this one. We've given the monthly insights screen a fresh coat of paint and a tidy up. New Colours & icons mean you'll quickly see that 84% of your purchases last month fell under 'Good Life'. You do you, live your best life.
+ Your trip back through time has never been more comfortable. Sit back, scroll less and live more. We've bundled together your previous transactions into collapsable months. Relive your fondest purchases from your activity feed quicker than ever before. Nostalgia is a powerful thing.
+ Too loud? We've added a stack of new notification preferences in the Notifications menu so you can opt in and out of different communications. Dial it just the way you like it.
+ It's time to break free. We've added the ability to download each month's transaction history and import with your favourite supported program.
v1.6.5 | App
AUG 22, 2019
+ Praise be unto the holy lords of bill payments. Today is the day to rejoice! For today BPAY payments are now available on Up. Send your bills to the hallowed land with swift justice. Equipped with your BPAY Biller Code and Customer Reference number, you are now a bill paying powerhouse. Head to the Payments tab to start your BPAY journey.
+ It's an unspoken bond. A feeling you can't un-feel. Up to Up payments are delivering a new kind of connection. When paying other Upsiders' PayID you'll now see each other's profile photos and preferred names. There are no strangers here. Up to Up payments will auto identify contacts, and to top it off, you can now immediately shoot back a reply payment. Life is a conversation, so let's rap.
v1.6.1 | App
JUL 31, 2019
+ Supercharge your savings with Boosted Round Ups. In addition to your regular round up you can choose to dial it up a notch & add a little extra to your purchase. From your saver tap Round Ups and slide that slider for an extra $1 - $10 to be slammed into a saver whenever you use your card. Let the good times roll.
+ Previously even dollar purchases wouldn't get a round up. No more. You can now toggle your even dollar purchases to round up a whole $1. Just more opportunity to easily stash a bit of cash.
v1.5.0 | App
JUN 26, 2019
+ There’s no excuses anymore, hit the ground running. Google Pay instant provisioning is here! Don’t get caught up waiting for your card to arrive, start spending within minutes of signing up. Instantly add your card from the comfort of the Up app or just set up during sign up. Rejoice, the prophecy is fulfilled.
+ It’s been called the biggest advancement since Cut, Copy, Paste. You can now Add, Edit and Delete Upcoming payments! Not all bills are monthly, we get that. Upcoming payments will now support Weekly, Fortnightly, Four-weekly, Monthly, Quarterly and Yearly - The whole gang is here.
+ It’s time to dig up that photo of you wearing a fedora in Mexico from 2009..You know the one. Up Profile Photos are now here. Add your best snap or upload a selfie directly from the profile menu. Felt cute might delete later? That’s cool, no one will see it just yet but best get ready for when they do.
+ We’ve made some accessibility improvements and those of you who use VoiceOver and TalkBack will now have a much better time navigating Savers and using the Talk to Us section.
v1.4.5 | App
JUN 6, 2019
+ It's time to get granular. You can now add custom tags to your purchases and get a new layer of spending insights. Work expenses? Indoor plants? Cheeseburgers? Whatever is in your bag, just add a tag. Track your ongoing spending with 'tag insights' in your monthly summaries. The power is in your hands.
+ Keep yourself from being cardless. The next order is on you. You can now tee up your own replacement card if yours should become lost, stolen or damaged. Order your replacement card from, you guessed it, the 'Card' menu of the Up tab.
+ Contact icons are spreading their wings. You'll now notice new contact icons when sending or receiving money from your mates. A welcome addition to your activity feed.
v1.4.4 | App
MAY 22, 2019
+ Statements will now make a statement in more ways than one. Sent through the ultimate design machine, your Up statements now look and feel better than before. Merchant logos, Monthly overview, more transactions - A real treat handed down from the document gods.
+ We’re bringing the buzz. We’ve tweaked the co-ordinates and set loading states on a new path.
While waiting for Up to load you’ll notice our new triangle animation. A true journey through time and space. Tell your friends.
+ Unicode Version 11 Emojis have joined the gang and are now available as Saver icons. From ‘Leg’ to ‘Llama’, all your new favourites are here! You can also long press on an emoji to summon different Skin tones. We are now eagerly awaiting version 12.
v1.4.3 | App
MAY 9, 2019
+ Be braver with your Saver. You can now set Emojis as your Saver Icons. Nothing like a bit of visual motivation to get you moving towards your saving goals. New bike? Floppy disks? Pet Camel? Whatever you’re saving for there is probably an emoji for it. We’ve also updated the flow so you can pick your Emoji when you create a saver. ¯_(ツ)_/¯
+ New number? No Worries! From now on you won’t need to message us to update your digits. You can now update your mobile number in the profile section of the Up tab. Much easier.
+ Hitting the coffee shop back to back, in the space of a few hours? We feel you. Your activity feed will now give you the long and short of it, and similar transactions will be grouped up into a neat little package. Quickly see your grouped spend or roll down to see your itemised list. It’s the little things.
+ Take control and define how your Up card is used. Don’t want ATM Cash withdrawals? Disable it. Contactless payments? Turn them off. In-store or online purchases in Australia or overseas? Kill ’em. Configure card is now in the card menu of the Up tab. You’re the shot caller. Become who you were born to be.
Server update
APR 10, 2019
Samsung Pay is now supported on Up! MST (Magnetic Secure Transmission) support will be available in June/July.
v1.4.1 | App
APR 1, 2019
+ Why don't you tell us a little about yourself? Your own personal profile section is now here! A happy place where you can set your preferred name and change your email. We've also added timezone support for our pals out West.
+ Phase one of our 'Upcoming' reboot has commenced. You'll notice a new and improved layout so it's easier than ever to track when your Upcoming payments are coming up. For all you data heads out there you can now drill down into a merchant from your Upcoming list to see payments past. This is just a taste of what's to come. Be alert, but not alarmed.
+ You can now access a proof of balance statement to keep all of those governing credit bodies satisfied, or just prove to your mates that you are indeed 'good for it'.
+ Love Siri on the go? Who doesn't! We know we do. You can now ask Siri for your balance directly from your Apple Watch. You'll feel like a boss checking your balance and transferring to Savers right from your wrist.
v1.4.0 | App
MAR 14, 2019
+ Let's slip into something more... Wearable. We are very proud to announce Super powered banking, in a super small format. Introducing Up on watchOS!
View your Balance, Savers and Activity feed right there on your wrist. Take security into your own hands and block, or unblock your Up card in an instant... should it mysteriously disappear. For you seasoned watch wearers out there: The Up watchOS app works with handoff and we've thrown in a complication as well.

+ Throw your spare change where it matters - Pull to Save is here. Give your activity screen a mighty pull down to send your spare cents flying to the high heavens and straight into your round-up saver. Warning, this is dangerously addictive.
v1.2.1 | App
FEB 15, 2019
+ Don’t theorise, just categorise. Outbound payments can now be assigned a spending category. That $40 you chipped in for Julie’s going away present last week can now be safely filed under ‘Gifts & Charity’. 10 points to you, you generous human.
+ All you category enthusiasts out there will be delighted to know that we’ve added some new spending categories. We would like to welcome ‘Hobbies’ and ‘Investments’ to the team. Glad to have you on board.
v1.2.0 | App
FEB 5, 2019
A smarter way to Afterpay is here! You can now link your Afterpay account with Up.
+ Transactions will appear with correct merchant information. You didn’t buy that shirt from Afterpay, you bought it from that super trendy shop. We know that.
+ Smart receipts show exactly what you bought and appear directly in the transaction.
+ Stay on top of your Afterpays by budgeting for each instalment. Up will automatically detect your upcoming instalments and add them to the Upcoming screen. Suddenly 7 Afterpays at once is not so overwhelming.

We also did all the regular bug fixes and improvements.
v1.1.1 | App
JAN 23, 2019
'Spellchecker 2000' wasn't turned up to maximum voltage. A couple of typos slipped through the cracks. We tracked them down and corrected these little hiccups. Carry on.
v1.1.0 | App
JAN 21, 2019
Dusted out a few cobwebs and gave the flux capacitor a bit of a tune up. Now when this baby reaches 88 miles per hour, you are going to see some minor performance improvements.
v1.0.12 | App
JAN 15, 2019
What's new?
+ Don’t let the foreign Tax man get you down! Customers who are US citizens or have foreign tax obligations can now get on Up.
+ Your mates who are with other banks can now get a text message letting them know you’ve sent money to their PayID from Up. g2g c u soon.

And bug fixes?
+ NSW driver license has now been extended to 10 characters. That's exactly 1 character better than before and is now the same amount as a NSW drivers license number.
v1.0.11 | App
JAN 9, 2019
New Year. New You.
New Bank. New Hints.

Up bank accounts usually work better when they have money in them.
We’ve added a new hint to remind you and show you how fund your account.
Highlight of the year….so far.
v1.0.10 | App
DEC 20, 2018
Twas the week before Christmas and it was time to release.
Time to squash bugs, make changes and keep our wheels lined with grease.

Payments have run for days without care,
Yet still, We’ve inserted improvements,
Improvements that once were not there.

With more love and care we keep the app humming
A new name is here!
We’ve changed ‘Regulars’ to ‘Upcoming’.
v1.0.7 | App
DEC 14, 2018
It's like your birthday.. but better. Payments are finally here!
Now you can pay OUT of your Up account, and pay your way IN to people’s hearts.
+ The payments screen is now unlocked and will be the happy home for all your payments needs
+ Pay people instantly with support for Osko and PayID
+ Payments in/out are easy to read with conversational style threads, just think of it like a messaging app..but with money
+ Organise, archive and import mobile contacts so you are absolutely certain it was the right Brian that paid you back for drinks the other night
+ Make your money mean something and send every payment with a message and some carefully selected emojis : eggplant :
v1.0.6 | App
DEC 1, 2018
Improvement starts from within.
Fixed up a couple of bits.
The circle of life goes on.
v1.0.5 | App
NOV 22, 2018
+ Ready or notch, here it comes! We've added support for the iPhone XR — and you know what, things have never looked better.
+ We fixed some issues with notifications that included users not getting notifications at all. Notifications have been restored to their former glory.
+ It’s the update you’ve all been waiting for. We’ve updated our sticker app! Slap yourself silly with 5 new designs. Fun for the whole family.
+ We’ve tightened the screws, we’ve oiled the joints — our app is all buttered up and smooth as. Breathe easier as you navigate your way through our improved ... er navigation.
v1.0.4 | App
NOV 15, 2018
+ Sometimes you just want to know where it all went wrong. Our old error messages weren't very helpful. Knocked up a couple of new error messages so we all feel better when things don't go as planned.
+ We've shed those winter pounds and the app is now 30% smaller.
v1.0.2 | App
NOV 7, 2018
+ Let’s chat.. about some chat updates. We’re talkin’ about a new layout… We’re talkin’ about chat archiving… Did we mention your can upload images now? Send us your screenshots when you find a bug. We also welcome pictures of cats.
+ For all you newbies out there we’ve added Apple Pay provisioning to the sign up flow. Live the dream and add your Up card to your Apple Wallet before the plastic arrives! Full bank account and Apple Pay in under 3 minutes. If your a long time upsider and haven’t added your card to your wallet. We’ve added a shiny new button in Card under the Up tab. Leave your card at home. We got you boo.
+ Can’t get post to your address? Don’t have a mailbox? Don’t stress. You can now add a PO BOX during sign up. We will tell your Up card to wait there for you.
+ See your ‘hot’ and ‘not-so-hot’ spots for each month. Monthly summaries now has Location Insights. Easily see that your’e spending too much money in that super trendy suburb and maybe stay home for a bit.. have some you time.. You’ve earned it.
v1.0.1 | App
OCT 18, 2018
+ It's not 1983, no-one remembers people's phone numbers (except maybe your grandma's). Invite a Friend now allows you to pick a contact from your phone's contact list. Radicool!
v1.0.0 | App
OCT 1, 2018
+ "With a Little Help From My Friends" by The Beatles was released in 1967 on celebration of 10th International Friendship Day. In 2018 Up released 'Invite a Friend' - You can now select 3 (three) of your closest friends to get early access to Up. There will be no refunds, no re-dos and no extra invites. Choose wisely. Your circle of friends depends on it. Find it under the 'Up' tab in your app.
+ We were 'saving' this one for another release but you guys have been so great we thought we would share early. Say goodbye to Targets..Don't say goodbye to the money in them..thats not leaving...We have re-named Targets to 'Savers' *crowd wildly cheers in celebration*. Great things come to great people.
+ We've never been one to keep secrets.. So we got rid of them! Your secret is now called your 'Passcode'. Really breaking new ground on this one.
v0.4.0 | App
SEP 24, 2018
+ Our bosses told us we should 'broaden our horizons'... We weren't sure what they meant by that so we went ahead and fixed up the horizons in app. As you swipe between screens you'll notice everything is perfectly aligned and centred. Try it out! You'll be guaranteed to get a better sleep.
+ Late one afternoon we received an email saying our support team physically can't work 24 hours a day. We noticed we didn't display the support centre open hours in the Support tab. Our team now leave at 5pm AEST and get back to support messages when they get back in at 9am. Don't forget, if your card is lost or stolen, your phone has this great feature that enables you to make voice calls. Turns out we have the same features in our phones. You can do the math...
v0.3.2 | App
SEP 17, 2018
+ Adding to Apple Pay became even easier today with a bit of tinkering under the hood. We made those little square messages at the top of your feed astoundingly better. A great day for all
+ We challenged our resident chief of graphs to give a once over on our Merchant Insights. His love of bar graphs shines through in this update, now you will see monthly spend graphs of every merchant.
+ We've pulled out the old highlighter to make it easier to see some payments that haven't been identified. This is where you come in - help the Up community identify merchants and help yourself to see exactly where your money is going.
+ We're still in the process of unpacking, but managed to clear a space to make way for payments. You'll notice a new tab and screen, and the ability to make payments will be coming soon. Finally you'll be able to pay back all those people you owe. Loan sharks won't be coming after this little fish.
v0.3.1 | App
AUG 24, 2018
+ Like a questionable games night partner, we found our hints haven't quite been on point. We fixed our messaging and no longer tell you to add your Up card to your Apple Watch when you don't have one. If you have one, great! Very nice watch. Lucky you.
+ In a whirlwind of class and fineness we've added some new styles when registering a new device. It doesn't stop there, this new look has made its way into a few other nooks and crannies in the app. We hope you enjoy your stay.
v0.3.0 | App
AUG 20, 2018
Thanks to everyone for the support of the Up beta! We hear you loud and clear and your feedback is much appreciated
+ Avoid the panic attack and uncontrollable crying when you loose your card. You can now instantly lock your card to stop any unwanted transactions. You can also unlock your card when you find it between the couch cushions.
+ Monthly insights are getting hot. Real hot. You can now drill down and really see how much you're spending on booze instead of groceries. That's helpful information, right?
+ PayID was made for you and me. Sit back, relax and forget your BSB (and account number). PayID is now active for all inbound payments.
+ Our plastic cards are starting to find their way in the world. We also made it a bit easier to follow your cards journey to you!
+ Cover your tracks! We've added device de-registration so you can keep your data secure. Dont worry though, we've made it easy to get back in. Our door is always open.
v0.2.4 | App
AUG 16, 2018
They say a small change is as good as a holiday.
+ Minor fixes and improvements.
v0.2.3 | App
AUG 9, 2018
It’s not the size of your update, it’s what you do with it. Got a small fix in to help users who have require login on. All is well with the world.
v0.2.2 | App
AUG 26, 2018
Welcome to our newest batch of beta users! We are still polishing parts of the App so your support and feedback is needed now more than ever!
+ We didn't want to lose face so now use yours to unlock the app (don't get touchy - you can use your fingerprint if your phone does that too)
+ Someone kicked out the microphone lead and a few of the new people haven't been able to hear us. Our techs have plugged us back in and Notifications are working for all again. Hoorah!
+ So turns out 'Times New Roman' is not as popular as it used to be. Our expert font team has hand picked a geometric sans serif with unmistakable character yet universal appeal.
v0.2.1 | App
JUL 9, 2018
You wanted the best... Well, we are still working on it.
+ As a welcome to our newest batch of beta users we gave the UI a bit of a tidy up.
+ And for the users that are already here, we called the exterminator to vanquish some bugs.
+ To those still waiting in line, we are coming around with snacks and fizzy drinks while you wait. Hang tight. We will get you through.
DELIVERY PLAN
IN PROGRESS
UP HIGH
A subscription tier offering benefits and features. Now in Early Access.
ESSENTIALS SAVER
A dedicated, interest-earning Saver designed for bills.
AUTOMATIC COVERS
Set up rules to have Savers automatically cover purchases. Previewing now on Up High Early Access.
QR CODES
Easily share your payment details or request money using QR Codes.
STARTING SOON
SHARED ACCOUNTS
Ability to create an account shared by two or more people.
UP HIGH
EXPLORING CREDIT
ACCOUNTS &TRANSACTIONS
ADVISETRAVEL DATES
PAY CYCLEVIEW
LOCATIONENABLED ID
QR CODESUPPORT
ADD VIRTUALCARDS
ATTACHVIDEO
IDENTIFYPAY/SALARY
REAL-TIMEWEBHOOKS
UP API(PERSONAL)
3RD PARTYAPPS/OAUTH
ANDROID
IPHONE
ADD NOTES &ATTACHMENTS
LINKED ACCOUNTROUND-UPS
RECURRINGPAYMENTS
SCHEDULEDPAYMENTS
CONTACTSON UP
TAG TRANSACTIONS
CROWD-SOURCEDIDENTIFICATION
COMPAREPERIODS
AUTO TRANSFER % OF PAY/SALARY
AUTOMATEDTRANSFERS
MAYBUY
2UPSAVERS
HIGH-INTERESTSAVER
PAY FROMSAVER
INSTANTPROVISIONING
REPORT CARDLOST/STOLEN
ADVANCEDCONTROLS
CARDS
BLOCK CARD
FITBIT PAY
GARMIN PAY
INSTANTPROVISIONING
ACCESS & DATA
ACCOUNTS
APPLE PAY
INSTANTPROVISIONING
BLOCKEDCHARGES
GOOGLE PAY
PAY ANYONE (DE)
SINGLE USER
TRANSACTIONAL
SAVINGS
MULTI-USER
ESSENTIALSSAVER
2UPJOINT ACCOUNTS
SHAREDACCOUNTS
ROUND-UPS
ROUND-UPOPTIONS
DEPOSIT/WITHDRAWAL
TRANSFERBETWEEN
PAYMENTS
OSKO PAYMENTS
PAY PHONECONTACTS
REGISTERPAYIDS
GENERATEDPAYID
LINKEDACCOUNTS
UP-TO-UPPAYMENTS
PAYMENTREPLIES
BPAY
ACTIVITY & INSIGHTS
UPCOMING
TALK TO US
PROFILE
MERCHANT ID
TXN CATEGORISER
EDIT/DELETE
MANUALADD
ATTACHTRANSACTION
REGULARS
CREATE CONVERSATION
ATTACHSCREENSHOT
DISPUTE/REPORTTRANSACTION
SURVEYS
UPCOMINGPAYMENTS
SET TIMEZONE
UPDATE EMAILADDRESS
UPDATE POSTALADDRESS
MONTHLY INSIGHTS
LOCATION INSIGHTS
TRACKERS
MOBILE
WEB &TABLET
API
FILE EXPORTS
SEARCHACTIVITY
TRAVELMODE
SMARTRECEIPTS
AFTERPAY
AFTERPAY
SPLIT BILLS
IN-APP CARDDETAILS
WATCH
UPDATEPROFILE PIC
CLOSEACCOUNT
HOME SAVER
HIDESAVERS
ANNOUNCEMENTS
SCHEDULEDTRANSFERS
SAMSUNG PAY
UPDATE PHONENUMBER
REGISTERUPNAME
FORWARDDEPOSIT
COVERPURCHASE
AUTOMATICCOVERS
INTERESTFORWARDING
PAYIDSFOR SAVERS
HOME LOANS
REQUESTMONEY
ATTEMPTEDCHARGES
PLANNED
UP HIGH
PRUNED
IN PROGRESS
DONE
PAYMENTS& PAYEES
INTL.PAYMENTS
IN-APPSECURECODE
CUSTOMPERIODS
LOCKSAVERS
PRE-APPROVALS
HI—FI
PAYTO
LINKED ACCOUNTSPLITS
SPENDABLE BALANCE

=== blog_round-ups_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Round ups
Back to Blog

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

=== blog_samsung-pay_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Samsung Pay
Back to Blog

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

=== blog_save-up-1000_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Save Up 1000
Back to Blog

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

New Year’s resolutions feel good to make, but there’s a smarter way to change. Upsider Anna shares her secret to really saving.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

Jan 04, 2023

=== blog_saver-goals_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Saver Goals
Back to Blog

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

=== blog_saver-pools_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Saver Pools
Back to Blog

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

=== blog_savers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Savers
Back to Blog

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

=== blog_saving-and-budgeting_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Saving and Budgeting
Back to Blog

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

=== blog_saving_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Saving
Back to Blog

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

New Year’s resolutions feel good to make, but there’s a smarter way to change. Upsider Anna shares her secret to really saving.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

Jan 04, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

How to Save for a Baby

Truth is, no one ever plans perfectly for a baby. Sometimes we don’t even get the option to try. Here's an Up team member's take on what you can control, and how you can prep your space and your Savers to meet the new arrival.

Anne Shea

Dec 14, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

The Round Ups Round-up

Having now made over 250,000 round ups we take a nerdy dive into the data we've seen, including the most common cents amounts on purchases and our plans for the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 28, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_saving_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Saving
Back to Blog

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

=== blog_savings-goals_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Savings Goals
Back to Blog

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

=== blog_scammers-why-dont-they-just-get-stuffed_.txt ===

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

How to Up, Staying Safe

We’ve all been there: worked up a sweat stressing cause we clicked that dodgy ‘parcel tracking’ link. Lost sleep wondering whether to transfer money for that online find, that seems too good to be true.

The sad truth is that there’s some really uncool humans out there who’d like to trick you into handing over your hard earned cash, and don’t care that you need it.

In this blog:
Some scams we’re seeing lately
Signs it’s a scam
How Up keeps your money secure
What’s in your hands: protect your money from scammers.
Teamwork makes the dreamwork: save this number to report a scammer
What Scams are Scamming right now

We’ll give them this much credit, and no more: scammers are good at inventing new ways to be shitty people and get their hands on your money and private details.

Most of what we’re seeing is operating by SMS and online marketplaces. Here are some making the rounds.

The Urgent Request

This one’s a ticking timebomb. The sender ID on this SMS looks legit, and so does the page on the other side of that link. Sometimes it’s a request for your card info, and other times for your login details. If it’s the latter, you’ll probably get a follow up text asking for the verification code sent to your phone, ultimately handing over the keys to your account. Beware.

The False Alarm

It could be an ‘outstanding road toll’ or an ‘overdue bill’. The amount is usually small, but that’s just a ploy to not raise your eyebrows. Once you’ve punched in your card details, they’ll punch you right in the nest egg by taking your card for a joyride.

The False Friend

It kicks off with a heartless crook posing as a friend or family member. A text comes through explaining how they’ve lost or broken their phone, and they now have a new number.

The next stages vary, but their tactic remains the same — earn the trust of the target. Once a bond is built, a request for money is made. And it can take many different forms: “I need money for fuel”, “I need to pay a bill”, “I need a new phone” — the list goes on. The point is, always triple check before sending money to a random account.

The Slimy Seller

Is the asking price on that PS5 too good to be true? Sorry but it probably is. There’s no stopping someone setting up an ad online that will be sure to tickle your temptation. If you pay before you check out the item in person, you could be kissing that moolah goodbye.

Always be on the watch and make sure that what you’re buying actually exists and the seller isn’t going to ghost you.

The Info Hunter

Don't be fooled: these dodgy cats aren't actually conducting surveys on first pet names or the street you grew up on. And they don't need your ID document to confirm your identity before selling you something on Gumtree. While they may sound convincing, you should always take a second glance. If it doesn't feel right, keep your secret details and ID documents to yourself.

There’s other scams around too, like people who want you to ‘invest’ in their NFTs and crypto. Then disappear. Or people who pretend to be in love with you so you’ll send them money. Special place in hell for them. But the ones above are the most common, and the most likely to catch you out amongst the rush of everyday life.

Signs It’s A Scam
It’s got urgency to it. The folks at your water company aren’t going to cut you off over a half an hour delay.
There’s a ‘need’ for your personal info. Nobody needs your password ‘cept you.
There’s threats of bad stuff happening.
The spelling and phrasing are a bit off, or the link is obscured or looks weird. Best bet is to head to the actual website itself. Not sure about an ‘Auspost’ tracking link? Go to Auspost yourself via Google, not the link.
How Up Keeps You Safe

Feeling a bit worried? Let’s skip to the good part. Up has some real nice inbuilt controls for safety.

First of all, we’re mobile only. To get into your Up account, scammers would need access to your physical phone or a code sent to that number, your mobile phone number AND your 6-digit Up passcode. Definitely chuck FaceID or a passcode on your phone too for added security and you’re looking pretty good.

If it so happens that the planets align and someone suss manages to get hold of all your info, we'll make it hard for your hard earned cash to quickly leave your account. If somebody registers a new device to your account, any payment made will cop a delay and be scheduled for later, giving you a fighting chance to get that email, tell us you're in trouble, and send our team into Protect mode.

We also limit your outgoing payments. If you try to make a payment of more than $5k, we chuck a delay on it and send you an email (just in case it wasn't you) - not cause we're the boss of you but because it gives us and you a chance to make sure all is right in the world.

The team does some other stuff behind the scenes too, like looking for anomalies and patterns. Our digital guard dogs often pick up things one scammer tends to do, and match patterns to pick up another.

We won’t tell you all the stuff we do because, like Q in his lab making seagull-shaped breathing gear for James Bond… sometimes you need to keep your secret weapons secret.

Things Only You can Control

Much as we’d love to put your money behind two really angry sabre tooth tigers, there are times in life when we’re not there and you’ll need to tap into some street smarts. You wouldn’t actually want two vicious beasts guarding your cash all the time, because sometimes you need to easily pay for stuff to live your life. If we stopped you from buying a bike on Marketplace, we wouldn’t be a very good bank.

When buying stuff from a person you don’t know online, use your spidey senses. Is it too good to be true? Is the seller making up excuses as to why you need to move money this very moment? Tell ‘em to take a hike. OSKO (the system banks use for most small transfers) is close to instant, so go touch that bike, fondle its handlebars, make sure it’s definitely a bike as advertised, THEN send an OSKO payment. The seller will get that money right away, so there’s no need for them to push for anything earlier.

The world wide web is vast and filled with questionable characters building pretty convincing looking web pages, so it can be hard to tell if the online site you’re shopping on is legit. If you’re ever concerned that your card details have been compromised when shopping online, tap on ‘Cards’ menu under the Up tab in-app and freeze your card immediately, then hit up our fine Support folks through Talk To Us to figure out next steps as a team.

Your identity is a delicate and precious flower (unpack that however you like). Always think twice before giving away the secret information that makes you, you. Nobody REALLY needs a photo of your licence to 'prove that you're real'-- try a photo of you with the latest copy of Woman's Day instead.

If it can be used to buy a drink or get on a plane, don’t share it: someone else can use it to pretend to be you.

See something, Say Something

It may feel like it’s all taken care of, but every report of scamming attempts helps us massively.

We are often able to get scammy websites, for example, taken down quickly. But if we don’t know about them we can’t do anything to help – we need you! So if you take one action today – it’s please save the number 0429 557 997 in your phone, maybe as “Scam report”. That number has one purpose in life, and it’s collecting scam reports.

Then when you get anything uncool, forward it on and our fierce security team (we did have to give the sabre tooth tigers something to do) can get the site taken down ASAP to protect other customers, save others, and potentially stop some shady scammers in their tracks. You legend 👏

Outro

Heavy, yeah? Look it is. We’re here for you and since you’ve given us the massive job of being your bank. That’s phenomenal, and also something we have to take very seriously.

The team at Scamwatch have put together some genuinely great stuff including the Little Black Book of Scams. Check it out.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Security, Avoiding scams

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Level Up Your Money – Quick!

Got a minute? Maybe even three? If you’re new to Up or just want to feel better about money, here’s seven tiny hacks that could have a big impact.

Up

Oct 03, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_security_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Security
Back to Blog

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

From the 'Hi Mum' text to shady Marketplace buys, scams are on the rise across Australia. Here’s how – together – we can keep your dollars safe. May the power protect you.

Up

Nov 03, 2022

Lock it Up!

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Anson Parker

Aug 09, 2018

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018

=== blog_shipped-in-the-night_.txt ===

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

Updates

iOS Lockscreen Widgets

A small but powerful addition for our iOS friends. You can now add Up widgets to your iPhone lock screen and let these little pocket rockets do the heavy lifting. Take your productivity to new heights as you view your Balances, Trackers & Savers in one swift glance. When the mood strikes, implant a circular, rectangular or top line widget into your lock screen and soak up the ultimate iOS experience on Up.

2Up Locked Savers

Teamwork makes the dream work. 2Up Locked Savers are at your disposal — the ultimate way to secure your savings on Up. Both Players 1 & 2 have the ability to lock a 2Up Saver, but these function a little differently to your personal Locked Savers.

For 2Up Savers, the Player that seals the vault on a Saver won’t receive the usual prompt to nominate a mate to skip the 3-hour timer. Instead, the non-initiating Player is nominated by default to wield the key that unlocks the safe before the timer runs out.

End Repeating Payments

It’s your way or the highway. Repeating Payments can now be set up to stop automatically after a set number of payments. Select the amount of payments that suits you, knock ‘em dead and empower yourself to refine and optimise your financial road ahead.

Regular Slices

To save you some time, we’ve tinkered with Slices to show a collection of the most recent contacts and groups you’ve Sliced a payment with. Any regular Upsiders you’ve Sliced with will now appear ahead of the rest of your contact list each time you Slice up a payment.

The devil is in the details with each of these little nuggets. Enjoy a selection of compact changes built to make life on Up that little bit easier.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: iOS, 2Up, Payments, Lockscreen widgets, Locked Savers

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_slices_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Slices
Back to Blog

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

=== blog_smart-receipts_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Smart receipts
Back to Blog

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019

=== blog_spendable-balance_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Spendable Balance
Back to Blog

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

=== blog_spending-and-budgeting_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Spending and Budgeting
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_spending-and-budgeting_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Spending and Budgeting
Back to Blog

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Upgrade your finances with the Upsider community

Put the kettle on. Because today our Upsider community is sharing their best advice for small-but-slick financial changes that’ll really pack a punch in 2021.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019

=== blog_spending-insights_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Spending insights
Back to Blog

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

=== blog_spending_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Spending
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Locked Savers: Savings Self-Defence

Up’s introducing a handy substitute for willpower. Chuck a lock on your hard earned, and focus on what you really want.

Evan Simmonds

Aug 29, 2022

A Beautiful, Chaotic Machine: ADHD & Money Management

Let’s map Up to better suit your own personal brain magic. Here’s a little inspiration from Upsider Ollie.

Ollie

Apr 29, 2022

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020

=== blog_starting-out-right-with-2up_.txt ===

Starting out right with 2Up

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting, Saving, Building Up

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

It’s a tale as old as time. You’re at the supermarket, minding your own business, when you and a dreamboat reach for the same tin of spaghetti. Your eyes meet. Your palms are sweaty. This is it for you, and before you reach the checkout you’ve already planned the name of your French Bulldog and where you’ll be glamping when you’re grey nomads together.

But before you start wearing matching jumpers and mooshing all your finances together, maybe hit pause on commitment. Not forever. Just while you get set up. The better you plan ahead now, the more likely you are to be shopping together when you’re 95.

2Up — collaborative finances for couples
Level up with 2Up

The reality is, starting a life together means making decisions that aren’t always easy. Sometimes love is nicer when you don’t risk it all. That’s why we created 2Up – a more flexible kind of shared account that you can build as you go, from a Netflix bill to a bicycle built for two.

Be separate, together

Moving in together is a big commitment, especially if you’ve never done it before. There are all kinds of lovely things about it. Rolling over to see your beloved’s face every morning, sharing the mug they stole from their work. But there are some real choices you’re about to face, and they can cause conflict. Truth bomb here – having different ‘money styles’ can break up even the most loving couples.

Instead of jumping into totally shared finances right away, 2Up gives you the option to take banking-for-two for a test run. You can get started in the app with a few taps.

This is how it works: you both keep your existing Up accounts. All of your Savers, Pay splitting and Round Ups stay in place, so can keep cracking on with your existing goals. You can’t see theirs and they can’t see yours.

Then, you can both transfer funds into your 2Up - it’s right there in the same app, like a good roommate that cooks and cleans but doesn’t go through your stuff - and start making joint payments from it, like rent, electricity and hiring an emotional support ferret.

The features you love in your existing Up spending account are in 2Up, too. All transactions, categories, forwards and covers will be where you expect them to be, and you’ll each get your own digital 2Up card. The only difference is this account has two beautiful people in it, ready to give love a go.

Make your boundaries healthy and fun!

OK. You’re all set up, but maybe you’re feeling a bit personal-space starved. You might be the kind of person who likes to keep things close to their chest. And do you know what? That’s great. Part of having a respectful, positive relationship is knowing where to draw the lines.

2Up makes it easier to set boundaries. Maybe you’re not ready for your partner to know exactly how much you spend on Halal Snack Packs or skincare. If keeping your finances private is important to you, it should be important to them, too. With 2Up, you can choose which expenses are paid together and which are kept separate.

You’ll both have equal access to your joint funds, and Up avatars will show you who’s spending what. But your personal money – and boundaries? Those are yours to keep.

Normalise the big conversations now

Talking about money can be pretty intimidating. It tends to be one of those things we’re taught to keep to ourselves, like politics at family Christmas. There’s plenty of taboo around discussing what we earn, how much we spend and what we can afford to put away.

Being clear with your partner from the beginning can help normalise these tricky chats. That way, if one of you loses shifts and can’t afford the regular Friday night beers, you won’t feel like you’re ‘confessing’. If subscribing to three different streaming services is stretching your budget too far, you can feel comfortable explaining they’re not a priority for you right now. (And if that hottie gets weird and pushy about it, you just learned something really important about them.)

Your 2Up account helps to make it clear. Because every transaction is automatically categorised, it’s easier to point to where money is being spent and where you might be able to cut back.

These are all practice for the big conversations you’re going to have later. In five years, when you’re talking about starting a family or buying an apartment, you’ll already know how to introduce the money topic in a safe, shared way.

Plan to spend money together – it’s romantic, actually
Map Out And Nail Your Money Goals With Savers
Learn more about Savers

We don’t mean like, oh baby, your bank balance is so sexy (although, yes). But it can be romantic to save for future plans. Where do you see yourselves together? Maybe you’d like to take a caravan on a coastal road trip, finding hidden beachside treasures and making out in the moonlight. Or maybe heading to a festival is more your style, or making a regular donation to an animal sanctuary, or buying the kind of library that needs an actual ladder.

2Up accounts are a great way to figure out your budget. Add Trackers to your categories so you can both have clear spending limits. Make time to review your Monthly Insights so you know where your money is going.

Then, open a budget-friendly bottle and toast to your teamwork. And kiss, or whatever.

More than ever, it’s okay to walk away.

Every story ends differently. Hopefully with a happily ever after, but even the most unbelievable meet-cutes don’t always work out 💔

Making financial decisions after a breakup can really waste energy better spent crying to Phoebe Bridgers or getting back on the swipe-right wagon.

At Up, we love love. We absolutely believe that what you’re feeling is forever. We’re setting up our Savers for your 50th anniversary gift. But if things don’t go to plan – and they will, we’re sure of it – we want to make it easy for you to move on with your life without jeopardising your financial future.

Closing the door on your 2Up account won’t add to your heartache: simply withdraw your Money, cancel your direct debits and shut it down. And next time you find a likely looking Player 2, you’ll know how to ease your way into the game.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Joint accounts, 2Up

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_staying-safe_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Staying Safe
Back to Blog

Scammers. Why don’t they just get stuffed.

From the 'Hi Mum' text to shady Marketplace buys, scams are on the rise across Australia. Here’s how – together – we can keep your dollars safe. May the power protect you.

Up

Nov 03, 2022

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

Lock it Up!

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Anson Parker

Aug 09, 2018

=== blog_stopping-payment-abuse_.txt ===

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

Building Up, How to Up, Staying Safe

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

We’re not finished yet, but our whole team is committed to helping keep Upsiders safe and secure. Here’s how we’re tackling it.

In this blog:
What is Payment Abuse?
Designing a New Solution
The New Rules: How Up Detects and Blocks Abuse
How Up has Changed
Up Tools You Can Use to Set Your Own Boundaries
Getting Help in an Abusive Situation
What is Payment Abuse? Is it Different to Financial Abuse?

Up’s features make payments easy. But like so many good things, sometimes they’re misused. Payment abuse is the use of payment descriptions to send unwanted communication.

For example: once an abuser has been blocked from physical contact with their victim, texting, or sending DMs on social, one of the last things they might try is to send messages attached to a small bank payment. A bit of money and some words, to ruin someone’s day.

We've now supported a broad spectrum of customers through complex abusive situations, including, but not limited to payment abuse. People breaking up on bad terms, and people experiencing domestic violence, and/or financial abuse (when someone else controls you through money). People who just want some distance and peace after a bad break up. Maybe even mates who have fallen out over money owed.

Here at Up we are all about safe spaces and respect. And while we don't have insight into people's relationships, we do have a commitment to help keep our customers safe.

Our platform makes money and transactions more conversational, but good conversations go two ways. So we’ve put a lot of effort into the question of how to stop payment abuse from happening, and more widely, how best to protect Upsiders.

Designing a New Solution

First, we took a look at how other banks handle payment abuse. Some, for example, block ‘bad words’ before they’re sent; some boot people who use those words out of the service straight away.

We had a hunch that any one-size-fits-all definition of abusive language wouldn’t work. We don't think it's our job to tell you you're not allowed to use swears; and in Australia at least, swearing is pretty poorly correlated with real intent to cause harm. Our research confirmed that just blocking any list of words or phrases would still leave many customers vulnerable to abuse, and we wanted to find a way to help as many Upsiders as possible.

Next, we took a look at chats where we could be sure abuse was occurring; to see if we could find a different kind of pattern. And we found one. It wasn’t much to do with the actual words used: it was actually low value payments with no reply. That is, someone was sending out heaps of really small payments, and getting few or no transfers in return.

When we reviewed the data across our entire customer base looking for those kinds of payments, we now had a much higher success rate for detecting payment abuse. So now that’s what we look for.

The New Rules: How Up Deals with Abuse

Of course, finding it is only part of the solution. So here’s what we now do when we detect suspected abuse, or when it’s reported to us:

For the person receiving the abuse: we talk with them and try to offer the help they need from their bank in their particular situation. We offer support to stop the abuse in-app, and give them the option to remove any abuse received in the past from their activity feed. And of course, based on the customer’s individual experience, we refer them to appropriate support services such as 1800RESPECT, or Lifeline.

For the person sending abuse: in the small number of cases where the abuser is, for example, threatening violence, we will ban them from Up and offer all the support we can to their victim - including working alongside police and other support services. More often, we send abusers a warning notification alerting them that inappropriate behaviour has been detected and that their account will be closed if they (1) don't respond and comply, or (2) send any additional abusive payments from the point the warning is received.

They have a day to respond or their account is shut down in line with our T&Cs.

We know what you’re asking. Why don't we close all abusers’ accounts immediately?

The decision to not immediately close all of these accounts ASAP isn’t intuitive, but when we got deep into research and consultation with the organisations best equipped to advise, it ended up feeling right.

When we're supporting Upsiders receiving abuse, they’re often worried and stressed about triggering their abuser. They may not want us to act, as long as we can help block the abuse. We're not going to turn a blind eye to abusive behaviour, but we also want to be part of a community where we're not making it someone else's problem.

The act of closing someone’s account seemed not enough, and in some instances even amplifying. So our approach is to help protect the customers who are receiving abuse in a way that makes sense for them, warn and monitor the people who are sending the abuse to let them know it’s not ok, and help ensure it actually stops.

How Up Has Changed

Learning from Upsiders who experience abuse has helped us grow, and helped us design new tools that give all Upsiders useful controls over who contacts them and how. For example, when we first started this work, we were getting around 20 confirmed cases a month of payment abuse. Since shipping the feature that allows customers to directly block Up payments from their app, this number has significantly reduced.

Having a solid system in place to support customers who are experiencing abuse has also had a huge impact on our team. A big part of this was building up our confidence and understanding of how we can support customers as their bank, with tooling like payment blocks, and when to refer customers to other support services like police, 1800 RESPECT, or the Government's eSafety website.

And we’re still learning. We’re not going to sit back and call this done.

Other Ways Up Helps Keeps You Safe

We’ve updated our T&Cs and depending on each customer’s situation, Up now offers a range of different ways to set boundaries, get safe, and stay safe. Some of these are things you can use yourself if you need to. For others, you can get help by hitting ‘Talk To Us’ in the app.

Mute payments

Just say the word via Talk To Us - we can remove payment descriptions and the name of the payee from your transaction history and statements. You don’t have to see that in your history. (But we will retain the records in case you need them later).

Block, Lock and Roll

If you're receiving unwanted or unsolicited payment messages from someone via Up, you can stop them in their tracks with one swift block.

To block an Upsider, head to their payment thread and tap the ‘more options’ ellipsis to find the 'Block Upsider’ option. This will stop them sending you any future Upsider payments and vice versa.

If they've turned a corner and you're ready to open back up, you can unblock them the same way or head to the 'Blocked Upsiders' menu.

Keep a low profile

If you’d prefer not to be found, we respect that. Just sail on over to ‘Payment Settings’ under the Up tab. From there, you can turn off ‘allow contacts to see I'm on Up’ and become a super secret Upsider.

Or, set course for Protected Mode: Upsiders will need both your Upname and your mobile number to find you and pay you.

Get a New PayID

You don’t have to get a whole new account with Up to escape someone who knows your old PayID. We can make a new one for you, to give you privacy and control.

In severe cases, we can open a new account for you and close your old one.

What's Next

Next, we’re working on what we call, ‘safe account’.

It doesn’t feel fair that someone who is already in a vulnerable position has to do more stressful admin to feel safe again. Losing all your transaction history and having to set up all of your direct debits again doesn’t feel right to us. So we're in the process of delivering a new feature to create a new BSB and Account number for Upsiders (basically a new account) and auto migrate all of their transaction history and direct debits.

One Last Thing

If you’re the victim of ongoing abuse, harassment or intimidation through payment messages, that’s not OK and supporting you is our team’s priority. In addition to making use of any of the linked services below that makes sense to you, please reach out via Talk to Us in your app. It’s staffed by people who care very deeply about your safety and they’ll get right on the case.

Domestic & Family Violence
1800RESPECT
Aboriginal Family Domestic Violence Hotline - 1800 019 123
Domestic Violence Resource Centre Victoria (DVRCV)
LGBTIQ Domestic Violence Information
MensLine Australia
Orange Door
QLife
Safe Relationships Project
Safe Steps Family Violence Response Centre
White Ribbon Australia
eSafety reporting adult cyber abuse
Mental Health
Beyond Blue
Headspace
Kids Helpline
Lifeline
Suicide Call Back Service
Government & Legal Services
Centrelink/Department of Human Services
Community Legal Centre (CLC)
Legal Aid
Women's Legal Services Australia

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Head of Customer Experience

Tags: Payment Abuse, Innovation, Support, PayID

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

Don't let Owed Money Tension get you down. When the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you need it, you can now request money from your mates on Up.

Up

Feb 15, 2021

Level Up for 2021

A new year deserves a new challenge, so today we’re bringing you three levels of Up to tackle. From setting up your first shiny Saver, to building your very own custom tagging system.

Up

Jan 29, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_summer_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Summer
Back to Blog

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

=== blog_support_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Support
Back to Blog

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

=== blog_sustainability_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Sustainability
Back to Blog

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020

Up-cycling core banking

Up is treading a different path to most other digital banks in that it’s being developed through a collaboration between a software company (us) and a so-called “traditional bank” (Bendigo Bank).

Anson Parker

Aug 15, 2018

=== blog_technology_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Technology
Back to Blog

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018

=== blog_the-co-op-champions-when-joint-accounts-are-a-challenge_.txt ===

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Upsider Stories, How to Up

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Hi, our names are Ash and Nathan, and we’re two nerdy 30-somethings living south of Perth. Ash is a trusty retail assistant manager and Nathan is a cyber security specialist. We met on Tinder!

Our first meeting was just after the Nintendo Switch console was released so that was a great excuse to hang out. After sharing our mutual interest in video games, music taste and geeky stuff in general, we've now been together for 4 and a half years. We have 3 kids between us and love our beautiful, blended family.

Nathan introduced Ash to Up, and we've been happy Upsiders for almost 3 years.

Ash’s story

I was equal parts thrilled and nervous when the 2up feature was added.

2Up — collaborative finances for couples
Level up with 2Up

Why nervous? Nathan and I didn't have a joint account. The mere phrase ‘joint account’ sent shivers down my spine. I’ve had a few not so great experiences in the past sharing a bank account with someone and I swore I'd never do it again!

I became a mother early in life and I’ve spent the majority of parenthood as a single mum. I've always had control of my own finances and enjoy my independence. I was afraid of losing that control: the idea of my money in someone else's hands was terrifying.

Partly because of that, money had always been a tense conversation between us. Even after we moved in together we kept our own separate living expenses and debts, and we both just felt safer in control of our own finances.

I wanted to feel that we were contributing equally to mutual expenses, but it seemed impossible to know that with separate accounts. We just had to trust each other to be honest about what we were spending, and for reasons that had nothing to do with the other person, that was hard for both of us.

Nathan's story

Back in 2019 I was doing some work with ‘neo-banks’ and that’s where I first heard of Up. “Hook Up a Mate” had me bring in a few family members, and then Ash, and before we knew it it was the only thing we were using for daily transactions.

I was a bit shy about sharing finances with Ash as I had come out of a marriage where all of my finances were controlled for me, without my input. There was somewhat a sense of freedom regaining that control.

When we eventually moved in together, I had no qualms about covering living expenses and letting Ash contribute whatever she could. Though that was fine for me, I could understand that it was all a bit opaque for Ash.

I didn’t think to give 2Up a try until Ash brought it up, but it was an easy sell. We could easily drop equal amounts into the shared account, and set up things like rent and internet for direct debit via the linked card.

This gave Ash instant visibility of those expenses.

Courage, collaboration and control

Ash: 2Up felt different because it seemed more like a collaboration rather than just sharing money. It looked like a place where we could fairly contribute funds towards shared expenses and be transparent about finances.

I gathered the courage to ask Nathan if he'd be into the idea of trying 2Up and thankfully he agreed.

The first safe step for us was to pay an equal share into our 2Up each month for rent.

Our salaries are different and I wasn’t used to that. To be honest I wasn’t really comfortable letting Nathan pay for things. He’s kind of generous and will sometimes say ‘don’t worry about it!’. But I didn’t like it when he made purchases that I didn’t see, because I wanted to make sure I was contributing as much as him.

So half-half on rent felt like a really good foundation.

Small steps with good fences

Slowly we started using 2Up more. It became a place our mutual bills came from: not just rent, but also utilities and groceries. The owner of our home decided to sell so we had to move: 2Up was a great place to pool together funds for moving costs. And naturally our 2Up grew to be used for everything from food to Xmas gifts for the kids!

The notifications made us feel safe to talk about spending, even though we weren't hiding before.

Before we knew it, we used 2Up for more and more things. Eating out, parking, fuel, lunch and coffee. It gave us opportunities to openly discuss money and it has strengthened our relationship when it comes to finances.

Nathan gets paid monthly so now he puts in a lump sum on payday. Ash’s pay is weekly so she pays in more often in smaller amounts: we use Upcoming and Ash aims to put in enough to cover half of the Upcoming bills.

Importantly, some of our money stays just ours. We’re both impulse spenders — and we don’t need to be in each other’s pockets for anything except the expenses that we truly share. If one of us wants to buy a brand new gaming chair — no problem, just use your own Up account!

The New Us

Now we don’t worry about having to ask permission to use money, because it’s shared. If one of us has to buy groceries, instead of paying and asking the other for half, we just use the 2Up. The other person will get a notification. Having that transparency is a weight off our shoulders.

We have even started saving together: we want to go to Japan next year and we have a little 2Up Japan Saver that’s slowly growing.

We can't thank Up enough for giving us the tools to be able to talk money without cringing!

A few more of our favourite Up features

Ash: I love Upcoming. I used to take notes to budget every week, and always worried that some bill would come out of nowhere to bite me. Upcoming has taken all the anxiety about upcoming bills away.

Nathan: I’m a big-time nerd. When the API dropped, I got super excited — I’m still trying to find the time to work up something interesting. The attention to detail on how the app looks and feels is unseen in the industry, and features like Round Ups (for saving accounts) and 2Up make it feel nothing like any bank I’ve used to date.

Both of us love the combined Pay Day and Upcoming features so we know how much we can spend each week — and we use a combined Saver account with Boosted Round ups to grow an emergency fund.

How do you use Up?

The Up team are so grateful to Ash and Nathan for sharing their story! If it hits home for you, try 2Up as a way to fight finances together in co-op mode. Easily invite your Player 2 and join forces to battle bills, save for shared goals, share expenses and track spending; without sacrificing your own personal money journey.

Do you have a story about how you use Up?

This post is part of an Up series, about all the ways people customise Up to fit their own personal money style. If you’ve got a story to tell, we’d love to hear it. Email anne@up.com.au.

Nathan and Ash

Tags: API, 2Up, Upcoming, Round Ups

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_the-ethical-engineer_.txt ===

The Ethical Engineer

How to Up, Upsider Stories

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Hi, my name is Matthew. I’m an engineer living in Melbourne with a real passion for tinkering with technology — data, automation, AI, you name it.

During the endless lockdowns of 2020/21, I’ve been learning to bake sourdough and discovering how many different spots that I can work from in my apartment... for a bit of variety... and thinking about how to buy better quality things that will last longer compared to a cheaper option. It’s an attempt to buy less, spend less time shopping, and lighten my environmental and social impact a bit.

E-ink displays are rad

To make this a bit easier to track, I added a few savers in Up that are dedicated to saving towards buying better quality albeit more expensive things; furniture, tech, clothes, etc.

When it came to choosing what I was saving towards, I could make decent choices about furniture and tech, but fashion was and continues to be a total blindspot for me. I wanted to avoid fast fashion, but I had absolutely no idea where to start.

Coincidentally, I had also been on the hunt for something to build as a little side project that would teach me the basics of a programming language called ‘Go’. The Up API had been burning a hole in my pocket for too long so it was time to see what it could do! Let’s build something to help me learn how ethical my fashion choices are… somehow.

Finding some decent data

The search was on for some data about the ethics of fashion brands, or even just the retail stores themselves. A lot of brands do make the effort to use sustainable fabrics, ethical labour, emissions offsets, and so on. But there’s a lot of info out there, and you don’t always know if you’ve made the right choice.

I could cross check every clothing purchase myself but that sounds like a lot of work… I really don’t want to have to do that. I want a computer to check for me.

There's a few websites and apps out there that aggregate information about brands' efforts which was a great find. I wondered if I could use one of those websites or apps to check if a brand was ethical or not. If all of my purchases could be magically scrutinised by these websites, then I thought that I could bridge the gap between guesstimating a brand’s ethics and knowing that my purchase supports a decent or questionable business.

In comes the Up API. I started pulling down my transaction data to see what info I could pull out of descriptions, merchant info, whatever I could get my hands on. I was able to get the names of some of the stores that I've purchased from in the past so I had a decent catalogue of brand names to use as test data. Now let’s see how those brands measure up!

Two APIs Are Better Than One

Getting access to my purchase history was the easy part. Now I had to determine how well I chose my clothes; ethical fashion excellence or fast fashion fail. I looked through different sources of fashion ethics data and nothing really fit what I needed until I hit a service called GoodOnYou. GoodOnYou have created an app and a website that allows you to check out the ethics of fashion brands, absolutely free!

I worked out how to pull a little bit of a sneaky and check a brand name against their ethics API without having to go to the website and do it myself ... automation! Hook that up to the brands that I got from my Up transactions and hey presto, my past fashion purchases are judged before my very eyes!

Taking a peek behind the covers of GoodOnYou (and good on them for making a great service)

The verdict was good and bad, a bit of a mix between brands that are tight lipped about their ethics, and brands that go out of their way to tell you how they source ethically, engage in good labour practices, etc.

Most importantly, now that I know about my past choices in fashion, I can make more informed choices in the future!

Goodness, notifications!

We won’t stop there though. I could easily forget to do this kind of analysis as time goes on. Sure, it’s automated, but it still relies on me pushing a button to pull down my transaction data and feed it into GoodOnYou.

To take things a step further, I wanted to know the ethics of a brand as soon as I purchased something from them: near-instant feedback. Luckily, the Up API was already feature packed and ready to enable me! I took my script that compares the brand in a transaction against GoodOnYou and hooked it up to what’s called a webhook in the API.

Now, every time that I buy something, it will be automatically fed into that script via the webhook and I can be notified of the ethics of my purchase within a minute of buying it! (And that’s enough time to cancel if I’ve made a big mistake).

This is fantastic! I’m reminded that the store I just visited is ethical or questionable as soon as I buy something there. The only way that it could be better is if it knew what I’m going to buy before I buy it so that it can metaphorically slap my hand away from my credit card. Maybe one day.

A satisfying project, the first of many

All in all I made a pretty nifty toy, learned the basics of a new programming language, and had a bit of fun along the way. Tying together my shopping habits with ethical consumerism has been very satisfying and leaves me wondering what’s next for the Up API.

I love reading about what other people have done with data, automation, any and all things tech-related. If you want to chat, ping me on Twitter @MULTI_GREY or - LinkedIn.

How do you use Up?

This post is part of an Up series, about all the ways people customise Up to fit their own personal money style. If you’ve got a story to tell, we’d love to hear it. Email anne@up.com.au.

Matthew Grey

Tags: API, Development, Fashion, Savers, Technology, Innovation

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_the-evolutionary-design-of-up_.txt ===

The Evolutionary Design of Up

Building Up

When we launched nearly 2 years ago, we declared our first principles approach to banking:

“Challenge the assumptions and limitations in banking and re-evaluate them from a more current point of view."

This statement did not come out of a contrived workshop, or committee, or a board of investors. It was the resonating sentiment of a team that had spent years in the weeds of banking software and its bureaucracy. Existing banks have too much baggage to be able to see the future of banking for what it could be. They lacked the courage to really re-invent themselves. Some questions that emerged from that period:

Why doesn’t every transaction have a timestamp, a merchant logo?
Why are all my payments to a particular person not grouped?
Why isn’t it easier to pay someone I’ve paid before?
Why am I sitting on hold on my phone to resolve an issue?
How can saving money be fun and engaging?

We knew that if we followed our noses and solved these user-centric problems, and many others of course, that winning customers would take care of itself. We now have over 280,000 Upsiders and counting.

Making Feedback Easy

Up does not do traditional user testing. There, I said it. That’s our dirty secret.

We think there are other techniques that are faster and better indicators of real-world behaviour. We also believe we have two advantages:

An innovation mindset

A deeper relationship with our customers than any financial institution in Australia

Much of banking is a known problem space. We feel like we're taking a more creative approach to the problem, but that's not to say we don't rely on user feedback. Our Talk to Us section encourages Upsiders to give us feedback or suggest ideas. To date, we have received over 6,000 ideas via this channel, making it one of the most crucial conduits into the minds of our customers. We also have other highly-engaged channels such as our socials and the newsletter where we hear, almost instantly, what customers think of what we’ve delivered.

Our Talk to Us trinity; ask for help, give feedback and report a bug
Engagement Is the Name of the Game

So where do we get our inspiration? It's rarely in the banking or fintech space. These are the apps that exist on billions of devices and set the bar for mobile digital experiences:

The leaders in mobile experience design

While they vary in purpose, their collective dominance in the landscape means they teach and familiarise patterns to expect when using our phones.

How does TikTok allow you to react to content quickly and effortlessly?
What similarities are there between Whatsapp, Messenger and Instagram when conversing with friends?
When explaining new features what language do these platforms use? When do they use visualisations? When do they use words?
When is Snapchat playful and when is it serious?
Do I identify with my real name or username for Instagram? What about Facebook?

As users we immerse ourselves in the apps that have nailed engagement. While acknowledging the patterns they establish, we also appreciate the balance between knowing when to follow them and when to do our own thing. Up has a handful of atypical patterns, but as long as they are usable and intuitive they can become distinct moments used to engage and delight.

Why is it so important that Upsiders engage with the Up app? Aside from the opportunity to nurture a relationship through frequent interactions, we also think that being more engaged with your money encourages better financial literacy. It’s common that people fall into credit trouble by continuing to use their plastic cards without checking their balance regularly. By making Up an engaging experience, we’re making Upsiders more confident and connected to their finances.

Becoming an Upsider

We’ve previously deep-dived on our card delivery experience. Before we could even get that far, we had to solve the huge problem of enabling people to sign up for a bank account without leaving the comfort of a mobile app — something that had not been done before in Australia.

We knew that the sheer amount of information we needed from the user was going to be a challenge. Banking is highly regulated in Australia, so we had to cater for many types of identity data (passport, license etc). Most apps can get away with just asking for a username, email and password.

Mobile flows tend to be atomic with a single input per screen, so with identity verification we were anticipating quite a long flow. Our focus was to trim the fat wherever possible, not just by reducing the total number of screens but also by making it easy for people to understand what was being asked of them as they progressed.

A portion of the Sign-up flow

We fought to reduce the amount of data we needed to collect. Why does banking need to know your gender? We cut it. Do you need your card sent to a PO Box? We’ll give you a contextual experience based on answers you’ve already provided rather than a scrolling form full of fields. As we tested the new flow amongst ourselves and with beta users from our waitlist, we made a few changes:

Anchoring buttons to the bottom of the viewport, and making them full-width. Close to your thumb and easy to hit.
Removing anything extra like images, so you could move faster without distractions.
Using conversational instructions (eg “What is your mobile number?” Instead of “Enter mobile number”). And only using secondary body text when it was really necessary.
Using example text for the input placeholder, so you'd know what the right info looks like.
Tweaks made to the signup flow

All of these small iterations reduced the cognitive load for users and made it feel easy and fast, despite the number of screens. This granularity was important as there isn’t actually a single sign up flow, but several which vary depending on your circumstances and the information we are required to collect.

Up Yeah!

Once we became more confident in our onboarding flow and how streamlined it was becoming, you could feel the team were ready to ship it and move onto the next bit of work.

It’s easy to have the blinkers on when you have such a measurable and objective goal — get users into the app in under x time — but stepping back, we made the observation that although we’d nailed sign up speed, something was missing the first time you landed on your activity feed. A moment that should feel significant and celebratory — you’ve literally just opened a bank account in under 3 minutes through your phone — feels clinical and unimpressive. We appreciate great brand moments in digital experiences, most notably MailChimp’s use of emotive design throughout their email software.

Great emotive design through animations by MailChimp

Email campaigns are stressful exercises — you can’t unsend them once they go out. It’s the nature of the beast. Interestingly, it was the arm of their mascot beast Freddie that was used in these cute but situationally-aware animations. The red button before launch, the high five once your campaign is live, and the rock fist for scheduled campaigns.

Our creative director Pete was eager to create a moment post-signup that made you go “f*ck yeah” in celebration.

The first of many ‘Up Yeah!’ moments

Almost immediately after this launched it was being shared by new Upsiders and acknowledged through our feedback channels. Of course you only give yourself an opportunity for these moments if you are nailing the fundamentals. But this reinforcement encouraged us to lean into these seemingly frivolous treatments as a way to delight Upsiders while building a stronger brand.

Logging in Sucks

Sometimes the design process involves considering what you don’t see as much as what you do see. For Up, removing the login screen is a great example of this. Banking apps tend to have heavy authentication flows before you see your feed or landing screen. It’s easy to see how this came to be; mobile apps came after desktop banking sites, and so inherited their secure lockdown context. And perhaps it goes back even further back to the mindset of “money belongs in a vault, behind a locked door”.

With all the technological advances in mobile device security, from the humble PIN code to sophisticated biometric recognition, it’s worth questioning some of the assumptions and trade-offs made in the name of security.

Logging in is a big friction point. Especially if we’re trying to help inform you about your finances.

There’s an interesting distinction that’s prominent in tech — the difference between security and privacy. If we break out of the world of banking apps and look at some of the apps we use each and every day – imagine if you had to enter a passcode every time you opened your email, or your messages? Yet if someone had access to either, they could reset every password you have and really cause you some headaches. We found a helpful albeit simplified distinction when approaching this aspect of the user-experience:



	
Privacy
Protecting information that is sensitive "Read Only"
	
Security
Protecting against being compromised financially "Write Access"



A design decision we’ve made with this framework is removing the need to enter a passcode by default (which can be re-enabled in settings), and also when moving money where there isn’t any risk. Transfering between Savers doesn’t require you to use your phone’s authentication flow (e.g. passcode, Apple’s FaceID or Android’s BioAuth), but moving money into your spending account or sending money outside of your account (e.g. to another bank or via BPay) does.

Our philosophy is to ask for authentication where appropriate to maximise security, while also letting Upsiders enjoy the benefits of being more informed and connected with their money in a low-friction way. Our push notifications extend this by increasing visibility to your finances while still offering the preferences to protect your privacy.

Navigating Up

Like the sign-up flow, navigation is an area you address early when building an app from scratch. A solid convention in this space is the tab-nav, anchored to the bottom of the screen.

Several examples of the good ol’ trusty tab-nav

We even use a tab-nav on a banking app we built.

Bendigo Bank app

From that experience we learned that banking software can become quite large in surface area once you consider all the services offered. Tab-navs don’t lend themselves to being flexible and you can find yourself rearranging and regrouping items to fit a logical taxonomy. We also believe that the "hunt and peck" interaction while using tab-navs feels inelegant.

In contrast, the iOS home screen feels really usable when looking through your apps (and soon, widgets). Anywhere on the screen can be swiped, no aim required. This led us to create a unique but highly flexible and usable navigation concept. We could drop in sections as our services grew, and rearrange sections – or potentially allow users to – while being primarily gesture based.

Custom navigation concept. Gesture-based and flexible.
Prototyping (testing notification bubbles), and the app today
Pull-to-Save

Our Pull-to-Save feature has an interesting backstory. Rather than being requested or envisaged directly, it emerged organically thanks to a few events.

Round-Ups have been a staple feature of Up where your transactions are automatically rounded up to the nearest dollar (or even higher) and the difference is put into a Saver of your choice. A visually appealing by-product of this is that your activity feed contains nice rounded whole numbers. We noticed this drew attention to numbers that weren’t rounded — often your available balance 🤪.
Anson would sometimes talk about when you return home after an outing and empty the spare change from your pockets into a jar or your car console. He was curious about this habitual saving behaviour, and how we might replicate it within the app.
The last piece of the puzzle was an engineering improvement we shipped called "silent push notifications". Simply put, this meant users were always seeing the most recent information and no longer had to pull on the screen to refresh its contents, common pattern across many apps. When finishing up this feature, one of our engineers asked me what we'd like to do with this interaction.
“What should we do with it Dan?”

I showed an idea to Levi (someone equally passionate about interaction design) who quickly prototyped it up to see how it felt in the hand. The idea was to pull on the screen and flick the remaining cents from your balance across to your Round-Ups Saver. If your balance was a whole number, we’d flick over a dollar.

Levi's early prototypes
Some creative variants, Splash and Zap.

The fact that we were nervous about shipping this speaks to the cautious approach we have to gamifying banking. We needn’t have worried though because not only did our Upsiders love it, the long-term data shows an upwards trend in people making spontaneous contributions to their savings goals. In fact in the 18 months since we launched this feature, we’ve seen over 1 million dollars saved via Pull-to-Save.

Pull-to-Save in action
Visualising Savers

Initially we shipped Savers with a safe donut-progress ring to visualise the amount against the goal. Typically in banking, seeing your savings balance is a detached experience, a status check. Off the back of Pull-to-Save, our appetite for making saving fun and engaging became pretty big. We wondered if there was a way to feel how full your digital piggy banks are. We gravitated towards volumetric concepts over our existing perimeter progress bar.

Up Savers, at launch and today

If visually a Saver was now a container, perhaps the contents could respond to your phones movement's, via the accelerometer. Maybe your Saver emoji could swirl around? Was there a way to feel this motion, through haptic feedback or vibration?

The importance of being mindful of the creative 'dial' during this part of the process can't be overstated. Knowing when to turn it up and when to show restraint. Variants and ideas were constantly shared with the team via mockups and prototypes, and feedback flowed.

Prototype huddle, a time before social distancing

What resulted was Saver Pools, a visually engaging and interactive experience with your savings.

Saver Pools, a tactile nest egg experience
Social Payments

We’ve previously touched on our belief that payments are a conversation and continue to iterate towards that vision. It's not about replicating social media features within our app, but rather understanding the why behind interactions in social contexts.

For instance, we often see users screenshot a confirmation screen as a way to prove they made a payment. We built payment replies in light of this, allowing Upsiders to very quickly give someone a thumbs up, react with any emoji or send a custom message in response to a payment.

Payment replies within the Up app

Soon we will ship more powerful functionality in the pursuit of understanding and creating social banking. Here’s a sneak peek of our initial thinking for bill splitting and requesting money:

Early mockups of bill splitting and requesting money
Onwards and Upwards

We feel like we’re starting to make a real dent into the world of banking. Not only have we assembled and grown a passionate team, we've also forged a design process that empowers us to help our Upsiders be more connected to their money. There's a great sense of satisfaction as we see The Tree of Up fill out. Challenging limitations and turning them into opportunities is now a comfortable space for us, and given how connected we are with our customers, we feel we’re in good hands. The only way is Up.

Daniel Wearne

Head of Design

@wernah

Tags: Design, History, Innovation, Savers, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_the-future-of-banking-is-looking-up_.txt ===

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

Building Up, Updates

We're excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

That we have achieved this in Australia — a far smaller market than either Europe or the US — is a testament to the traction we’ve had in a competitive market and the latent desire for a genuine innovator in banking.

Our lightning fast sign-up (averaging under 3 minutes), including instant provisioning of Apple Pay, has meant customers have been able to quickly try Up and see for themselves what the future of banking looks like.

Who are our Upsiders

Up is fast becoming the choice of younger Australians with particularly strong uptake amongst the Gen Z and Millennial generations. Given almost every Australian holds a bank account (or two) we expected the younger demographics to lead the way — having a simpler financial setup and perhaps a greater appetite to try something new.

As you can see above, Gen Z and Millennials make up over 85% of Up customers with Gen X and older generations filling out the remainder. Our customers range in age from 16 at the youngest to 90 at the oldest.

Spending Wisely

One of our key areas of focus has been to better connect customers to their spending. We’ve been working to give customers the tools and insight to determine where their money goes. Some of our key innovations in this space include:

Merchant ID

We’ve developed a world-class platform for properly identifying the merchants customers spend with. No more ALL CAPS puzzles — Up can determine names, logos, locations and much more for tens of thousands of merchants in Australia and abroad. Our platform is improving every day, powered by a crowd-sourcing engine that leverages our customers knowledge to improve the system for all Upsiders. As of June 2019, Up recognises over 55,000 merchants which represents around 90% of retail spend.

Upcoming charges

While much attention is given to helping customers see where their money went, Up flips this on its head and predicts where customers’ money will go. Up can recognise repeating charges and then give customers the heads-up a couple days before they’re due to be charged. We’ve also partnered with Afterpay, the buy-now pay-later service popular with millions of Australians, to recognise Afterpay charges, showing the merchant and even items purchased. Up has recognised tens of thousands of repeating charges and helped customers keep on top of their future payments.

We are currently predicting almost 10,000 upcoming charges for our customers, representing about $450,000 in value.

Insights on tap

Up delivers weekly spending summaries as well as providing an ongoing monthly summary of how much a customer has spent and how this compares to previous months. With a single tap, customers can view their spending by merchant or see a big-picture breakdown by category. We've developed a simple, understandable set of categories that has automatically categorised 2 million transactions representing $50 million dollars in spending.

Saving Effortlessly

We believe the path to financial independence starts with saving earlier and more often than many of us have so far managed. We saw far too many Australians in their late teens and early twenties putting off saving for another day.

Up makes it incredibly easy to start saving with no account opening forms required. Here are a few of our proudest developments in this area:

Round ups

With a single tap, customers can enable all purchases and charges to be rounded up to the nearest dollar and instantly transferred into a nominated Saver. To date, customers have made more than 1.1 million round ups and saved over half a million dollars.

A Saver for everything

Customers can easily create dozens of Savers for any and all of their savings goals. Upsiders have created over 75,000 Savers and saved over $25 million. Pictured above are some of the most popular things customers are saving for.

Making saving addictive

In March this year we launched a significant technology uplift that enabled our native apps to stay current without the need for customers to refresh their apps. This meant we could repurpose the "pull-to-refresh" to become "pull-to-save", an addictive way to firstly shave off any cents from your balance and then move $1 per subsequent pull. Customers have pulled-to-save over 65,000 times so far!

What’s next

We’ve had an incredible response to The Tree of Up, our public roadmap. Amongst other things, it gives customers a guide to some of the features they can expect over the next 6-12 months.

We’re working through a number of popular requests required to build out our everyday banking capability — future and repeating payments, as well as support for BPAY and joint accounts, to name just a few.

We’re also deeply invested in innovating new features to help people focus more on living and less on banking, while improving their financial literacy and wellbeing.

Hitting 100,000 customers has been a hugely rewarding experience. We’re more excited and energised than ever as we seek to continue delivering a new generation of financial capability to our fantastic and loyal customer base.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Insights, Savers, Round Ups, Tree of Up, Roadmap

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

Up 1.4.5 Release Notes

Transaction tagging, contact icons, new card ordering.

Up

Jun 06, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_the-roundups-roundup_.txt ===

The Round Ups Round-up

How to Up, Updates

Up just quietly passed a nice little milestone — 250,000 round ups have been... rounded up. We thought it was a good time to explore some of the data we've seen over the course of a quarter of a million purchases.

For those that don't use this feature (and you really should) let's quickly describe how it works: in a nutshell, once you enable it, Up automatically rounds up any card or digital wallet purchase or charge to the nearest dollar and moves that rounded up change into your nominated saver. You get a nice clean activity feed of exact dollar charges and a bunch of small but regular deposits into your saver.

A couple of examples: A charge of $4.60 would receive a 40 cent round up to make the total charge an even $5.00 while a charge of $2.50 would round up by 50 cents to $3.00.

We see round-ups as the "gateway drug" to a more serious savings habit – a way to encourage people that have never saved before, or perhaps don't even think they can save to begin to accumulate a nice little savings balance. A few transactions a day will result in around 50 bucks saved each month – $600 over a whole year. Not bad for something you didn't even really notice was happening.

We thought it would be interesting to dive a bit deeper into some of the data that's surfaced after a quarter million of these things. Fair warning: this does get pretty nerdy.

If you assumed the cents amount on a charge was evenly distributed across all 100 possibilities you'd expect a round up to average out to around 50 cents. That would mean 250,000 round ups would result in $125,000 saved. That's not too far off the mark, but the total ended up being $110,000, $15k less than expected. That works out to the average round up being 44 cents, not 50.

So the average cents on a purchase is therefore higher than 50 cents. 56 cents, as a matter of fact. Why? Well, our guess was that this has a lot to do with how things are priced: that old psychological trick of charging $2.95 rather than $3.00. Let's see what the data shows. Here's the distribution of the cents component of charges that were rounded up:

Share of cents component of rounded up purchases

You can see there's definitely a concentration of charges ending in 95 and 99 cents which would result in 5 cent and 1 cent round ups respectively. So there's the smoking gun for our low average. It's pretty cool (right?) to see how pricing favours the 10 cent and 5 cent price points. But that makes sense right? Single items tend to be priced at 5 or 10 cent intervals.

It's surprising (to us anyway) just how many prices end in 50 cents. Perhaps it has something to do with being the half-way point between two dollar amounts, but we suspect takeaway coffee could be the big culprit here!

It's also worth pointing out that Up currently doesn't round up prices if they're even dollar amounts, so any purchase of say $5 would not currently get rounded up. We did some digging on this too, and it shows that about 30% of all purchases are even dollar amounts. Here are the top 10 cents amounts of purchases (including $0.00)

Top 10 cents amounts on purchases

We're planning to provide more power to round ups this year. For one, we'll be giving you the option to round up those even dollar charges by a full dollar. We'll also let you boost your round ups so you can round up more each purchase. Finally, we're keen to find ways you can do other things with your round ups – send them to charity, or an account elsewhere like a managed fund, mortgage or even a credit card.

Hope you enjoyed that little excursion, please do get in touch if you have any more thoughts on round ups – we'd love to hear them.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Saving, Round Ups

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Who are our Upsiders?

With Up flying past 30,000 customers within a few months of launch, we thought we'd introduce a few faces who are enjoying life on the Upside.

Up

Feb 13, 2019

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_the-tree-of-up_.txt ===

The Tree of Up

Building Up, Updates

We're excited to introduce a new kind of product roadmap. We're calling it The Tree of Up – a technology tree-like view of our product plans for 2019.

Developing a close relationship with our customers has been a core aim of Up from the beginning. This meant providing customers with a convenient, in-app means to not only get support, but to provide feedback, suggestions and bug reports. In order for us to be responsive to customer needs we felt it was essential they could engage with us in a casual, personal and low-friction way.

Talk to Us – the place in the Up app where this all happens – has delivered on that goal. We’ve engaged in many thousands of conversations and continue to receive (and try to answer) hundreds of new ones each day. Some of the “idea” submissions we receive are questions about when Up will support certain features while many others are new idea suggestions – some already in our plans and others entirely novel.

Over the five months Up has been live, these conversations have coalesced into something of a whole. We now have a solid understanding of the features customers feel are essential for banking and also the direction they'd like to see Up progress.

Lately we’ve put a lot of consideration into the best way to share this information. The obvious choice was some form of public roadmap that would give existing customers reassurance that Up would cater to many of their needs and ideas while also assisting new or prospective customers in understanding where we’re headed.

We looked around at what others had done in this space. Public roadmaps are not uncommon but are typically presented as written lists, segmented by delivery window - some variation of “now, next and future” or “short-, medium- and long-term”. We felt these were OK, but didn’t do a good job or conveying strategy and direction or communicating priority. In the end we came up with something we think is new in this space. We call it The Tree of Up.

Essentially, we've borrowed the idea of a technology tree (an evolutionary map of technological development) commonly found in strategy games and co-opted it to map out the current Up feature set and also show where future functionality will fit in.

In games where you find tech trees, they serve to guide your development of skills and technology. For example, a branch of technology might start with the discovery of how to smelter iron and lead to the forging of tools and weapons which in turn might lead to the development of machines.

It occurred to us that this evolution of technology is similar to our development approach with Up. A lot of the basics – sometimes called “table stakes” features – need to be developed in order to open up the more enticing, world-changing features down the track. You've got to walk before you can run, as they say.

The Tree of Up lays out existing functionality and suggests a “natural” order to the development of new features. It reveals dependencies such as the need for multi-user account capability before we can deliver the much-requested joint and shared accounts.

As we develop this idea further we’ll be adding more to the Tree – more detail around timing, a sense of demand or popularity, and perhaps even more in-depth explainers for features and notes from customers who’ve requested them. Right now we’ve scoped the Tree to an approximation of the main features we’d like to hit in 2019. No doubt there will be more features added, and maybe some that don’t make it in before the year’s end. It’s a best-effort sort of venture and we’ll certainly be learning and sharing over the coming months.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Tree of Up, Roadmap

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

The Round Ups Round-up

Having now made over 250,000 round ups we take a nerdy dive into the data we've seen, including the most common cents amounts on purchases and our plans for the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 28, 2019

Who are our Upsiders?

With Up flying past 30,000 customers within a few months of launch, we thought we'd introduce a few faces who are enjoying life on the Upside.

Up

Feb 13, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_threads_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Threads
Back to Blog

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018

=== blog_top-10-highlights-from-2018_.txt ===

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Building Up, Updates

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Up launched publicly in October 2018, just over 12 weeks ago, but the Up journey actually started back in 2016 when we first pitched the idea to Bendigo Bank. It took about one year of development and testing before we launched the first working version of Up into production in late 2017. Then we tested Up for another year to make sure we had everything sorted before public launch, which means Up was being used for the whole of 2018.

Here are the top 10 Up highlights from 2018 (in chronological order). Pretty sure everyone has their own favourites, and we would love to hear from you what you loved most about Up in 2018. Here goes:

#1 — Alpha goes live, hosted on Google Cloud Platform

The Up Alpha program had 50 internal staff customers, and really kicked off in earnest during early 2018, so we’re running with that as the first highlight. During 2018, prior to launch in October, we had around 1,500 Beta testers. 3 months later, during the first week of January 2019, we gained nearly 1,000 new Up customers a day.

Technically, the first live Up transaction happened on 11 October 2017. We bought a long mac at Giddiup, a popular cafe in Melbourne.

Michael (head of technology at Up) was officially the first Up customer, and a few of our engineers and systems operations staff followed to make sure everything worked ok before Anson and the rest of the crew jumped on-board to give Up a whirl from a customer/product perspective.

We had around 50 internal staff Alpha testers (from Bendigo Bank and Ferocia) until April 2018 when we added around 150 family and friends. We ended up with a total of around 1,500 Beta testers to help test Up for several months before we launched. While writing this we’re now adding between 500 and 1,000 new Up customers with actual bank accounts every day — in part due to Up’s awesome in-app sign-up process.

When we first launched Up into production, we chose to host Up in the public cloud with Google Cloud Platform. The technical reasons why we chose GCP are probably better left for another post. In the meanwhile, here are some highlights from my perspective:

GCP provides Up with a world-class, global-scale platform that just works. Up runs on the same infrastructure that Google uses internally for its end-user products, such as Google Search and YouTube.
Some of the key reasons we chose GCP include their world-renowned service reliability, security controls, and scalability. GCP also supports open source tools and mass automation, which helps deliver Up’s real-time continuous auditing (hourly), and platform infrastructure automation.
With massive parallelisation on GCP, it takes just 45 seconds to deploy an entire Up platform for end-to-end automated testing.
With the benefits that GCP delivers, we’re able to focus our attention on building great new Up features for customers, and delivering updates multiple times per day. At the time of choosing GCP public cloud, our target was 5 software releases to production per day — which would, of course, be totally amazing (especially for a bank).
During 2018 we transitioned Up through several stages of testing including our Alpha and Beta programs very smoothly with GCP. We even migrated Up from one GCP enterprise instance to another, with just 2.5 mins of down-time for customers (at the time they were test customers, not the general public).
#2 — “Up” brand name and website announced

So much passionate work has gone into creating Up, and we’re so proud of what we’ve done so far. We really hope you like it too. Here’s a bit of background on creating the Up brand for your reading pleasure. Enjoy.

One of our logo and branding walls at Up headquarters from December 2017, just prior to the public announcement of the Up brand.

Sometimes we’re known as “Up Money” (like in the app stores) and sometimes “Up Bank” (officially, and so people know what Up is), but most of the time we’re simply known as “Up”. The process of naming a new digital bank is not an easy one. It took months to finalise the name, design all the material and launch the brand (which, in the scheme of things, is pretty quick actually).

Like the product itself, the name “Up” and the awesome branding we’ve developed was a few years in the making. Strictly speaking, Up wasn’t always known as “Up”. We had some internal code names and originally announced our new digital bank under a different brand name, until we settled on “Up” and secured the business names, domain names, regulatory consent, etc. Here’s a brief summary:

“Ferocia bank” was one of the first code names for Up. We used this name while we worked with a couple of the large four pillar Australian banks, helping them to launch digital banks in Australia and throughout Asia. None of those efforts ultimately ended up in customers hands, even though we spent several years working on them.
Although we’d been talking about Ferocia Bank since 2015, the first official document shared outside of Ferocia was an internal paper in September 2016 which referred to our new digital bank concept as “Project Apollo” and was written when we first pitched the idea to Bendigo Bank.
By February 2017 we had worked our way through a naming exercise and settled on a name. For those interested, some of the names we considered included Volt and Leap (which had both been working titles for earlier digital bank concepts we built) and Ginko (Japanese for bank).
In April 2017 we pitched Bendigo Bank again, this time with a brand and a business plan (pretty sure they loved it by the way). By May 2017 we had agreed to collaborate. On 25 September 2017 we launched a website to announce our new digital bank brand, with iOS and Android apps “coming soon”. Everything was developed in-house.
We were in production with the first version by October 2017, and at the same time we were still reviewing the brand, including the name. By December 2017 we had decided to use the name “Up”, and in January 2018 we told the world.
During that time we secured the domain name up.com.au (against fierce competition from multinationals), designed a word mark, colour scheme, website, debit card, welcome pack, and an app user experience for both iOS and Android. It was a very very busy time in the birth of Up.
Since then, the Up logo and brand has continued to evolve. The first iteration was a custom word mark designed and developed in-house by our very own Dan (head of Design at Up) including a custom colour scheme comprising the Up “salmon” colour, accompanied by the “black Russian” colour which we’re still using today.
Then, in April 2018 we met Pete Johnson and his awesome design team at CIP Studio. Pete helped bring a bit more playfulness, illustration, and colour to the Up brand, and he’s been helping us enhance, improve, position, and promote Up ever since.
#3 - Partnering with Bendigo Bank, an ethical major Australian bank

Up is a collaboration between Ferocia (a technology company) and Bendigo Bank (the fifth largest Australian retail bank). We just wanted to share a few of the reasons why we’re so proud of our partnership and how awesome, ethical and forward-thinking Bendigo really are.

Dom Pym, co-founder of Up, and Marnie Baker, Managing Director of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, signing the Up collaboration agreement.

We’ve actually been working with Bendigo Bank for nearly 7 years to deliver their award-winning mobile and Internet banking platform, which is amongst the best in Australia.

After we’d been working together for about 5 years, we pitched Bendigo Bank on the idea of partnering to deliver Australia’s first next-generation digital bank. Many people ask us “Why Bendigo Bank?”. Some people may not think it matters where deposits are held, but it really does. Bendigo Bank is not just the fifth largest Australian retail bank, they are also innovators and ethical.

Here are some of the main reasons we are so proud of our partnership to deliver Up with Bendigo Bank:

Bendigo Bank do not currently lend to projects in the coal and coal seam gas sectors. In fact, Bendigo Bank is the only major Australian bank listed by Market Forces with no record of funding fossil fuels.
Bendigo Bank doesn’t shy away from their ethical responsibilities and have publicly stated their recognition of climate change. In 2010 Bendigo published their strategies to reduce/offset their own carbon footprint, and help others to do the same. Bendigo Bank has also voluntarily reported the banks carbon emissions since 2011.
Just over 20 years ago in 1998, Bendigo Bank launched a globally significant initiative called the “Community Bank® model” helping their customers and local communities to make a real difference, and share in the rewards. During the 1990s, almost one third of Australia’s bank branches closed. Approached by abandoned communities, Bendigo Bank launched the Community Bank® model helping communities to own and operate their own bank branches. Around 320 communities across Australia now operate Community Bank® companies, which literally help change lives, and save lives, every single day. Their home loans are building skate parks and sports facilities, hospital wings and classrooms. Personal loans, business banking and credit cards are funding ambulances, rescue boats, disabled and aged care facilities. As of 2018, over $205 million has been returned to communities and initiatives by Community Bank® companies nationwide.
Bendigo Bank was recognised in 2017 by Fortune as the #1 Australian company (and the 13th company globally) helping make the world a better place. This is quite an amazing achievement with Bendigo Bank counting themselves amongst global multi-national firms such as Apple, Toyota, Vodafone, Microsoft and others. The recognition is well deserved, and has a lot to do with the work Bendigo Bank have been doing in local communities and for the environment over recent decades.
According to independent research conducted by Roy Morgan in early 2018, Bendigo Bank were named the most trusted bank and 3rd most trusted brand in Australia, ahead of Bunnings, Qantas, Australia Post, Kmart, and the ABC. Roy Morgan’s Net Trust Score ranks the trustworthiness of Australian brands (including reliability, commitment to customers, knowledge of staff, ease of contact, and prior experiences, amongst other criteria). Awesome.

Besides all that, the Bendigo Bank staff are just really really great people to work with, which made our job in 2018 delivering Up together a whole lot easier.

#4 - First bank in Australia with app-based sign-up including instant Apple Pay

In 2018 Up was the only bank in Australia to support a full in-app sign-up flow including setting up a bank account and instantly activating Apple Pay, in as little as 3 mins from downloading the Up app.

Instant Apple Pay activation in-app was available in Up just ahead of our public launch.

In 2018 we released Apple Pay for Up. By launch in October, we’d also released Apple Pay instant issuance, Apple Pay inactive card activation, and the ability to set up Apple Pay before you even fund your Up account. We even made it possible to set up Apple Pay during sign-up, after sign-up or from Apple Wallet. Making Up the best and easiest way to get Apple Pay in Australia.

With Up, there’s no need to wait for your plastic card to arrive either, you will simply be prompted to add your card to Apple Pay as part of the sign-up process, and it’s totally automated — you don’t need to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually, or even fund your Up account (of course you will need money in your Up account to make a purchase later on, but we don’t let that stop you from experiencing a completely seamless bank account setup, including Apple Pay activation). Up will actually fill in all the details for you, and you just have to agree to the Apple T&Cs and accept the addition of your Up card to the Apple Wallet.

Some of the Up engineering team have actually been working with Apple since the App Store was first invented, back in 2008, so we know a thing or two about the Apple ecosystem and how to deliver the best customer experience, and we hope the results actually speak for themselves. Here are some of the 2018 highlights for Up sign-ups and Apple Pay activations:

During 2018, the average time for a new customer to complete the Up sign-up process in a single session and get a full Australian bank account was 2 mins and 54 secs (the median was just 2 mins and 2 secs).
Over half of Up’s new customers also went on to set up Apple Pay instantly during sign-up. During 2018, the average time to set up Apple Pay was less than 1 minute, meaning the full sign-up process including Apple Pay could be completed in less than 3 minutes.
Justin (community manager and content guru at Up) actually managed to complete the entire in-app sign-up process in 1 minute and 45 seconds on film, so we’re claiming him as the current world record holder for setting up Apple Pay with Up.
Finally, for those customers who didn’t manage to set up Apple Pay during sign-up, around one third of iOS customers set up Apple Pay automatically in-app post sign-up (most of them before we offered the instant sign-up feature).
#5 — First next-generation digital bank to launch in Australia

It doesn’t matter what you call Up; a digital bank, a neo-bank, a challenger bank — they’re all fine with us. In short, Up was the only next-generation digital bank operating in Australia in 2018 with an actual banking product in market.

Some of the Upsiders celebrating at the Melbourne Up launch event on 9 October 2018.

Ferocia is a 100% independent software company that designs, develops and delivers Up through a collaboration with Bendigo Bank. Up was the first next-generation digital bank to launch actual banking products in Australia in October 2017 (to kick-off our Alpha and Beta programs) and then publicly in October 2018.

A little bit of history

A neo-bank is a digital-only bank (sometimes a mobile-only bank) with no branches. It’s not defined by whether or not the bank has their own banking licence. For example Simple (from the US), often considered the first neo-bank in the world (and coincidentally founded by an Australian), launched using a licensed financial product from Bancorp. Moven (also from the US, and also founded by an Australian) is nearly always referred to as a neo-bank but they never had a banking license, instead they partnered with CBW Bank. Even Monzo (from the UK) considered one of the world’s leading neo-banks originally offered financial products through Wirecard when they first launched.

Following our successful public Beta, we launched Up publicly with a portrait Mastercard® debit card, multiple high-interest savers with a competitive interest rate, automatic transaction round-ups, the best merchant identification in market, upcoming automated regular bill detection, and support for all the major digital wallets (including Apple Pay, Google Pay, Fitbit Pay, Garmin Pay), and more.

We gathered over 100 media and partners for the Melbourne Up launch event at the awesome Notel rooftop in Flinders Lane. Despite the typical rainy Melbourne weather everyone had a great time finding out more about Up’s super-powers inside each of the “super powered” Airstreams perched upon the Notel rooftop.

The next day, we hosted the Sydney Up launch event at the amazing DesignByThem studio in Chippendale. The indoor setting was perfect, given the still rainy weather, and in addition to the Up super-power demos, we also quietly announced our unique Afterpay partnership to be the first bank to deliver retail smart receipts.

All launch participants got to use Up on their smartphones to purchase burgers and beers (from Huxtaburger in Melbourne, and Rustic Kitchen in Sydney), as well as Up merchandise — so they could experience the Up super-powers firsthand, with all proceeds being donated to local charities (including Maddie Riewoldt’s Vision, Youth Off The Streets, Children’s Ground, Wayside Chapel, and Sober Living Housing. It was a real “Up Yeah” moment for sure.

#6 — Live Mario Kart scoreboard, and world champion at PAX

In late 2018 Up had the opportunity to participate in PAX, one of the biggest gaming events of the year, where Upsiders got to challenge the Moo Moo Meadows world record holder to a race.

PAX 2018 attendees challenging Upsiders to a game of Mario Kart with “Kartalytics”, a real-time leaderboard developed by Up engineers.

We participated in a lot of awesome events during 2018 (including Intersekt, CeBit, the Australian Payments Summit, RubyConf, the Fintech Summit, and more). The biggest of them all was in October 2018 when we were fortunate enough to be able to participate in PAX Australia (the Penny Arcade Expo) at the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre, which saw up to 100,000 gamers, cosplayers, and others attending the biggest-ever gaming convention in Australia, held over 3 days.

The Up Mario Kart competition at PAX was powered by the “Kartalytics” leaderboard, some bespoke real-time analytics software developed as a side project by Up’s very own @mtcmorris.

Upsiders were challenged to a game of Mario Kart by the Moo Moo Meadows world record holder, which was awesome. He was so good, he took a break to quickly win the PAX Mario Kart tournament and then came back to deal out another thrashing. We managed to snap a selfie with the champ mid-game (and he still won).

Australian eSports champions ORDER also visited the Up Mario Kart stall, and did we mention the phenomenal cosplay from PAX attendees? It was unbelievable.

#7 — Continuous delivery to production for customers

2018 was a big year for Up. We achieved 99.97% up-time for customers, most likely better than any other bank in Australia. During that time we completed more than 23,000 automated software updates, and achieved up to 10 customer releases per day.

Up’s build pipeline, as represented by our in-house “Pipe-light” system, using programmable LIFX bulbs hooked into our Buildkite servers.

Every time an Up engineer writes software, our continuous delivery system kicks in to help us release software updates to customers all the time. It’s the way we‘ve built Up from day one and forms an important part of our automated delivery framework.

In December 2018, Chris (engineering lead at Up) published an article describing how we build Up. If you’re interested, you should head on over to his article and check it out. Here’s a few highlights:

Automated software testing at Up takes just 26 minutes, including a full platform regression test. This means we’re able to test Up twice an hour, or around 50 times per day.
Up achieved 99.97% up-time in our first year (even during our Alpha and Beta phases), including 6 system migrations, for a total of 2 hours and 35 minutes of planned and unplanned down-time. A great outcome for customers, and one we’re not sure any other bank in Australia would have achieved.
By 4 December 2018 there had been 23,361 automated software updates, and an average of 10 customer releases per day at peak during November 2018 (with the overall average for 2018 exceeding our target of 5 per day).

Some of that might sound like gobbledegook to you, but what it all boils down to is that Up can deliver higher quality features more often for customers than any other bank in Australia. We can iterate and improve Up for you every day, so not only will Up be first to market with new innovations, but we will keep improving Up every day to stay ahead of our competition and ultimately deliver a better outcome for customers.

#8 — First bank in Australia with conversational payments

Nearing the end of 2018, Anson let the world know that Up had become the first bank in Australia to offer conversational payments leveraging Osko, a near-instant industry payments service, running on the New Payments Platform, which was released in February 2018.

Up’s conversational payments, seen here as a conversational thread with Anson (Up’s head of product) in November 2018.

We’ve been thinking about payments as a conversation for many years. Sometimes they are financial (like splitting a bill or paying back a friend) and other times they are conversational (like letting your friend know how much they owe you, or thanking someone for a recent payment).

On 13 December 2018, just before 2018 was over, we released conversational payments for customers, combining both the messaging aspect (similar to popular messaging apps like WhatsApp or iMessage offer) integrated with the financial transaction component (similar to a traditional bank payment or transfer, but faster).

Prior to release, in November 2018, Anson (Up’s head of product) published an article describing how at Up we were designing payments from the ground up to be conversational and real-time. If you’re interested, you should check it out. In the meanwhile, I’ve just provided a few highlights here to whet your appetite:

With Up, you can see all your payments to/from your friends in a conversational thread just like WhatsApp.
Up lets you send and receive money near-instantly 24/7, with all Australian banks also using NPP/Osko (over 60 banks).
Up will also fall back to the traditional direct entry method used by all Australian banks (if the receiving bank is not NPP compliant, or does not support Osko). So, of course, you can use Up to pay in the traditional way using BSB and Account number as well.
Osko also supports much longer payment messages, and emojis! 😊
#9 — Up Savers ongoing bonus interest rate announced

At launch, Up offered a 4-month introductory bonus interest rate for all customers with no conditions. As a little Christmas bonus, we announced Up’s ongoing bonus interest rate and conditions.

Just before the end of 2018 we announced the ongoing Up Savers rate for 2019.

In addition to the awesome features and technology Up offers, we know rate is still important to many people, and we wanted Up to be competitive. At the same time, we are competing in a market dominated by the four largest companies in Australia (and amongst the most profitable banks in the world), so competing on price alone was not really an option.

When Up launched in October 2018 we offered all customers a 4-month introductory bonus interest rate with no conditions. Even though the rate was competitive, and there were no conditions many customers and would-be customers still wanted to know what would happen after 8:30pm, 31 January, 2019, and whether or not Up would be able to maintain an ongoing competitive savings rate.

We were very pleased to announce on 27 December 2018, just after Christmas and while many of us were still enjoying time with our families and friends, that the bonus interest rate for Up Savers would be ongoing, available on multiple accounts (not just one) and without any monthly deposits required (unlike most current Australian banks). Highlights as follows:

Up Savers attract 2.75% p.a. including bonus rate from 8:30pm, 31 January 2019.
The only criteria is making at least 5 successful card purchases per month.
Eligible transactions include purchases via debit card, Apple Pay™, Google Pay™ and other digital wallets.
The base and bonus interest rates apply to multiple Up Savers, up to a combined balance of $50,000.

For further details please visit the pricing page.

This new bonus interest rate structure, in addition to Up’s no conditions and no rebates model on overseas transactions and at local ATMs, helps Up maintain our position as a serious competitor in the Australian banking sector.

#10 — Last minute hint at the future of Up social payments

Just before 2018 was done and dusted, the final highlight was a sneaky little tweet from Anson hinting at the future of Up social payments with the up.me domain name.

A screenshot of Anson’s terminal while setting up the up.me domain name for a new product launch in 2019.

At the end of 2018, Anson announced we’d secured the up.me domain name, which was no small feat. This domain name was certainly well coveted, especially as it’s a 2-letter prefix and 2-letter suffix, making it one of the more valuable domain names in the world.

Behind the scenes, it actually took us more than 9 months to secure the up.me domain name, while in parallel we developed some new payments capability for Up.

As for what comes next. You’ll just have to guess for now, or wait until later in 2019 to see up.me in action.

If 2019 is half as big for Up as 2018 was, then one thing we can guarantee is that you won’t be disappointed.

Dom Pym

Co-founder

@dompym

Tags: Launch, Onboarding, Innovation

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Continuous delivery at Up

Deploying change to production is the heartbeat of any modern tech company. Not so much for most banks, where sometimes it is only done a few times per year. At Up we do it several times per day!

Chris Aitchison

Dec 03, 2018

Paying Someone

The area of payments presents one of the bigger opportunities for innovation and improvement in banking, but also exerts the greatest challenge on us to remain truly forward-looking and uncompromising while maintaining compatibility with industry standards.

Anson Parker

Nov 21, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_trackers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Trackers
Back to Blog

Get to know the 2021 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a fast-paced tour of the what and why. Holy ship, we really cranked out some software in 2021!

Up

Jun 01, 2022

=== blog_transfer-between-savers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Transfer between Savers
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020

=== blog_transfer-wise_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

TransferWise
Back to Blog

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

=== blog_transfers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Transfers
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019

=== blog_transferwise_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Transferwise
Back to Blog

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020

=== blog_travel_.txt ===

WE’VE GOT YOUR BACK, NO MATTER WHERE YOU’RE AT.
TRAVEL LIKE A LOCAL

Toggle Travel Mode on to see your balance in AUD and the local currency of the country you're in.

Buying something overseas? Our currency conversion calculator does the thinking for you. Convert the local currency amount to AUD so you know exactly what you're paying before you tap your card.

NO EXTRA FEES.

You’ll pay no fees on international purchases in-person or online. You’ll also get the same exchange rate we get from Mastercard, with no markups or conversion fees. Straight up.

Get cash out with your Up card for free at any international ATM that accepts Mastercard. Some ATMs charge their own additional fees, but they’ll let you know that before you withdraw.

NO GUESSING, NO STRESSING.

When you make a purchase overseas, you’ll immediately see the amount in the local currency and in AUD, with the conversion rate included so you know exactly what you’re paying then and there.

SAFE TRAVELS.

We’ve built easy-to-use security features & card controls into the app so you can lock down and manage your card if it’s lost, stolen or damaged abroad.

Check out Card Controls

SEND MONEY EASY.

We integrated with Wise to make sending money overseas easy. Pay no exchange rate markups, see how much you’re paying in fees and know exactly how much your mates overseas receive in their local currency.

Learn about Up x Wise

GET SET UP IN MINUTES.

Join Up today to travel easy and spend freely.

Cards can take 15-20 business days to arrive, so if you’ve just signed up and are heading overseas soon, get in touch with our team via the Talk to Us tab in-app so we can make sure it gets to you in time.

TRAVEL CHECKLIST
1. ACTIVATE YOUR CARD

When your physical card arrives, make sure to scan the QR code to activate.

2. CHECK YOUR CARD(S) EXPIRY

If your physical card isn’t brand new, make sure it won’t expire when you’re overseas.

3. CREATE A DIGITAL “ZAP” CARD

It can’t be misplaced or lost, making it extra secure. To activate, check out the ‘Cards’ tab in-app, under your Account settings.

4. ADD CARDS TO YOUR WALLET

Make sure all your digital cards are added to your digital wallet. They’ll be kept safe and sound together.

5. CHECK YOUR PASSPORT

While you’re at it, check the expiry date on your passport. You’ll want it to be valid for at least 6 months when you depart.

DOWNLOAD UP NOW

=== blog_travelling-with-up_.txt ===

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting

Last winter I escaped the grey gloom of Melbourne for a belated summer honeymoon in Europe (albeit with our two-year-old along for the ride). It was the perfect opportunity to field test the Up card and get some first-hand experience with what it's like to use our product abroad.

After five weeks away, I have a more personal understanding of both the advantages and limitations of travelling with Up. It's rare you hear a product manager talk critically about their own product which, when I reflect on it, seems like a missed opportunity to acknowledge where there may be limitations or trade-offs and explain why they exist. Despite outward appearances, we are usually painfully aware of them after all. Nothing, least of all software, is perfect. So let's not pretend.

Rather than a full re-telling of my trip (with accompanying slideshow) I've broken down my experience into some key sections related to using Up and put together a scorecard for each. No area gets a perfect score (yet) although that is certainly our goal. I hope you find the scores reasonable and enjoy this small expedition into our thinking.

2022 Update: As of June 2022, I've upgraded our scores within the Spending and Online Purchasing categories to reflect improvements in those areas. We're still not at full marks, but closer than ever!

Spending

Enjoying traveling with @up_banking and building out our Lisbon merchant database. This is all tax deductible right? pic.twitter.com/NKXI687kF0 — Anson Parker (@anson) July 23, 2019

Europe has embraced contactless payments with an enthusiasm that makes travelling with Up a dream. I was able to almost exclusively tap my phone to pay bills  -  there was only the odd occasion I needed to use my physical card.

Unlike most banks in Australia, Up adds no fees or mark-up to foreign currency charges and simply passes on the Mastercard® rate. This alone makes Up a great card to travel with.

Payment notifications were helpful in letting me know the amount charged in AUD straight after tapping. While Up is only able to report the $AUD amount on a pending transaction today, it would have been great to see the foreign currency amount at that point too (we currently show the foreign currency amount once the transaction settles a couple of days later).

The good news is we'll soon be showing foreign currency amounts as soon as you tap your card. Had this been in place during my trip I would have unashamedly scored us full marks in this category.

I was thrilled to see some of my purchases overseas come up as identified (i.e. Up already knew about the merchant). So kudos to those Upsiders that have previously blazed a trail through Portugal and Spain!

Updated rating:

Foreign currency information now immediately shown and rate is now locked in from time of purchase.

Original rating:

 A quick aside: often in Europe (and perhaps other places too) the merchant will ask whether you want to pay in their local currency or in AUD. This is known as dynamic currency conversion. As an Upsider you should always choose to pay in the local currency - you'll benefit from Up's margin-free mid-market foreign currency rate. If you do choose to pay in AUD the merchant will perform the currency conversion at a rate that will likely never be as good as ours (it's actually a way for them to make a bit more money on your purchase).
Online Purchasing

You would think online purchasing wouldn't factor much into travel, but in fact we often found ourselves buying tickets to museums and galleries online to skip the long ticket queues you'll encounter in Europe in July.

It was common for these shopping carts to trigger Mastercard's SecureCode online checkout authentication. With Up, this means you'll be sent a text message containing a 6-digit code but if you're like me, you travel with your phone in Aeroplane mode, hopping between free WiFi hotspots where possible. To receive this code requires connecting your phone to an overseas carrier.

We've had customers raise this with us but nothing beats feeling the pain yourself. With my mobile plan, connecting my phone to a network overseas activates a $10 daily charge (which includes a bunch of data and calls). Obviously this is not ideal if I only want to receive a single text message. So I have to take points off for that. We are on the case though – we're working to support an in-app model so that in the future you'll be able to authorise online purchases directly within the Up app with no need to enter a text message code.

Other than this, Up is of course brilliant for online purchases overseas with no foreign exchange fees, a great rate, and instant notification of the purchase.

Updated rating:

We now support SecureCode through push notifications – no SMS required!

Original rating:

Withdrawing Cash

There's no sugar coating it, Up has trailed some of the competition in this category. While we offer a great currency conversion rate, until recently we charged a $5 AUD fee for overseas ATM withdrawals.

The good news is as of 6 January 2020 we've ditched the international ATM withdrawal and balance enquiry charges. Some ATMs may still charge you an operator fee – this will be shown on-screen when you go to withdraw money and you'll have a chance to decline the transaction if you don't want to pay it.

It's worth noting that ATMs in Europe can vary a great deal in the fees they charge. The worst offenders seem to be the free-standing ATMs commonly seen near convenience stores and bars. They tend to charge high fees and offer a poor conversion rate. In Italy I needed some Euros so I went to the nearest ATM, a Euronet-branded machine like the one pictured above. It wanted to charge me a €3.95 fee with a quoted conversion rate of €0.5425 for $AUD1. To withdraw €280, the amount I wanted, would have cost $AUD523.31. Surely I could do better than that!

Despite the heat, I continued walking until I found an ATM on the side of an actual bank (I had heard these were better). Amazingly, this ATM requested no fees. It didn't even quote a rate, but on the assumption it couldn't be any worse than what I had just seen I entered my PIN and went for it. Through Up I was able to instantly see the amount deducted: $462.32 - over $60 less than the first ATM would have charged! So while some competitors offer to rebate operator fees, my rule of thumb is that if you're being charged a fee you're probably being ripped off on conversion rate. Using a card that rebates overseas operator fees might tempt you into using an expensive ATM thinking your fees were being rebated. But let's compare:

Competitor card at Euronet ATM with fees rebated: $516.13
Up card at major bank ATM: $462.32

Even at a major bank ATM, using Up can work out a lot cheaper than competitors given we offer the best exchange rate we can. Check out this Tweet from a happy customer (as mentioned above, we no longer charge the $5 fee so this works out even better now):

Used ANZ AU card to take out $1000 cash at ANZ NZ ATM got charged $989 whereas @up_banking only took $947 + $5 at same place 🤝 @dompym — inder gill (@indersinghgill) August 21, 2019

Updated rating:

No margin on FX conversion but yep, we don't refund operator fees like some others.

Original rating:

$5 fee and no rebated operator fee.
Insights

Holidays tend to be one of those classic scenarios where it's all too easy to disconnect from what you're actually spending. After all, it can be kind of a downer to dwell too much on money during what is often a once-in-a-lifetime experience. Sometimes you just gotta lay down that credit card and go for that meal, helicopter ride, or what-have-you.

Having said that, the post-holiday come-down is only going to be harder when you finally do check in on your balance and see it's twice as bad as you thought!

Up's instant spend notifications, weekly and monthly insights, and (in-development) location insights are a solid start to keeping you more connected with your holiday spending. Insofar as we're really unmatched at even our current level, it's fair to give us a solid rating here. We plan on continuing to develop and improve our insights. The ability to set budgets, better track spending across cities and countries and more explicitly track a holiday are all enhancements we're looking to support in the future.

Rating:

No one else comes close, but there's still room to improve!
Conclusion

It's in the stars – I found Up a great product to travel with.

Our weakest area historically has been overseas ATM withdrawals - however, this can be mitigated by applying a bit of care as to which ATM you choose. In every section above there is room for improvement and we are determined to improve as much as possible. Our goal is to have a perfect score before the year is done.

I hope you felt this a fair review  -  obviously our viewpoint could never be represented as completely impartial, but we have endeavoured to give an honest picture of both the ways in which Up is a brilliant travel offering as well as the areas we can (and will) improve. Feel free to call us out on any points you think I missed or didn't represent fairly.

This article should not be taken as an official Up product description - it's simply my personal experience travelling with Up in July and August of 2019. Always refer to our website, terms and pricing details for the latest up-to-date information.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Travel, Currency, FX, Spending, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

In App Card Details are here!

Up

Dec 16, 2019

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_tree-of-up_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Tree of Up
Back to Blog

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

We’re excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

Anson Parker

Jun 12, 2019

The Tree of Up

We're excited to introduce a new kind of product roadmap. We're calling it The Tree of Up – a technology tree-like view of our product plans for 2019.

Anson Parker

Mar 13, 2019

=== blog_turn-your-resolution-into-a-revolution_.txt ===

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

Saving, Upsider stories

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

What is it about January 1 that makes us believe everything will change? We’ll emerge from our NYE hangover with fireworks dust in our hair and, magically, be able to go to the gym every day, quit vaping or put money into savings every week.

Here’s the ugly truth: every year, millions of people make a new year’s resolution. And, by July, more than half of us have gone back to the comfortable, familiar, un-magical things we were doing before.

I’m one of those people. Boy, am I. Since 2006, I’ve resolved to exercise more. Sure, I said the same thing last year and failed spectacularly. But this year would be different. And so I do my little walk around the block for a few days, lift a few weights in my lounge room and make some problematic food choices, before returning to my couch by February, feeling worse than ever.

The problem is never that I haven’t actually exercised more – my six laps of the block are more than I’d exercised all year. The hard part is that, yet again, I have set a goal and failed.

In 2021, I was in the midst of feeling horrible about myself because of lockdowns and work burnout and my generalised anxiety disorder. Truly rotten. One day a little voice in my head said to me, “What if you get strong?” It wasn’t January at all, it was August or something ridiculous. I went, “Little voice, that sounds like a lot of work.” But it asked again until, secretly, I decided to try a bit. As a joke. Definitely not as a resolution.

At first, I just walked for ten minutes. I bought tiny hand weights and did the world’s smallest bicep curls. I ran for fifteen seconds. I bought slightly larger hand weights and did tricep curls. I huffed and puffed and sweated and yelled. It was hard. Weeks passed and I wasn’t buff yet, which seemed very unfair.

I didn’t do a bit more each day – some days I didn’t do anything. Some days I took a block of chocolate to bed and watched weird American cooking reels. But, on other days, I ran for thirty seconds, then a minute, then two minutes. I found beginner workout videos on youtube and followed along. I went for a longer walk. I did an extra curl.

Overall, I did more. In the grand scheme of things, I was getting strong.

Every time I worked out, I took a selfie to remind me of the extremely good effort I had made. At the beginning, I’m scowling in every single one, possibly dead. But by January, I’d started smiling. And by the next August, I had become strong enough to do one (1) pull-up on a bar in the playground. After fifteen years of trying, I’d managed to stick at it long enough to make a difference. Instead of feeling strung out about failing, I felt powerful and courageous.

What does any of this have to do with money?

Learning to run in 15-second increments – instead of trying to do a 5k on my first day – taught me that with a little persistence and tiny self-congratulations, I could do anything. Exercising more and saving money are two of the most common new year’s resolutions we make, and they have this in common: slow and steady wins the race. Literal or metaphorical.

This isn’t just a long brag about what a great athlete I am. Some time after I started “running” (moving my feet while crying) I also got an email from Up. I’d been an Up customer for a while already, mostly because of the way sales assistants always comment on how hot the neon orange card is, but also because it was slowly teaching me more about my money. Where it comes from (the hustle) and where it goes (books, chocolate, running shoes) and how much I need (depends how much chocolate is left).

This Up email was about a challenge to save $1000 in a year. It promised – swore to me – that if I put a little away every week, I would save a grand. I just had to stick at it and keep trying. It was the savings equivalent of running 15 seconds at a time.

I really wanted $1000. So, I signed up. I put away $34, and $19, and $6. I chose the week’s numbers from the options available and watched the animation tick over. Before too long, I had $100 in my Saver, which was $100 more than I’d had at the beginning. Every week, I saved a bit more and ran a bit further. Just chipping off bits of my life goals.

It’s been 62 weeks since I started running, and 35 weeks since I started the Save up 1000 Challenge, and I have two things I didn’t have when I started: the stamina to run 10 kilometres in a row, and $714. A plump little bag of cash just for me.

You’re too old and attractive for me to go all “tortoise and the hare” on you, but know this: every bit you do counts. If you miss a day, or do a little less than last time, or feel like you want to give up, that’s okay. You’re still moving forward. You can turn your new year’s resolution into a new year’s revolution (crowd cheers, fireworks explode).

You’re doing amazing. In the grand scheme of things, you’re absolutely killing it.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

@annaspargoryan

Tags: Save Up 1000

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

23 Easy Ways to Save This Summer

Here’s the Up team’s best – easy – tips to find a little extra $ left in your beach bag when the sun finally sets on summer.

Up

Dec 14, 2022

How to Save for a Baby

Truth is, no one ever plans perfectly for a baby. Sometimes we don’t even get the option to try. Here's an Up team member's take on what you can control, and how you can prep your space and your Savers to meet the new arrival.

Anne Shea

Dec 14, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_undo-transfers_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Undo Transfers
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020

=== blog_up-1-11-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

Updates

We really wanted to ship out one more gift before this decade is done for! Thank you all so much for your support in 2019. Here’s to all of you 🍻

In App Card Details

We’d like to welcome 16 very special digits to the end of year digital party. Your favourite numbers have arrived! You can now view your Up card details from directly within the app. With this tool in your pocket you’ll be equipped at all times to tackle any and all card related expeditions. Don’t reach for your wallet, reach for the stars.

To view your card details in app just open the ‘Card’ menu of your app and tap on ‘Show card details’. You’ll need to enter your passcode or Face/Touch before you can peek in the vault. Need to keep those digits secure. For your eyes only.

Make sure you’ve enabled payments and have an activated card before grabbing your card details in-app. If you cancel or need to have your card reissued you’ll be able to view your card details in-app when the new card is activated.

Copying Card Details

It’s the most convenient of copies right when you need it. You can now tap to copy any of your card details directly to your clipboard just by tapping on… any of your card details 😄

Copy each detail for those online card input fields, or copy the whole lot if that’s your deal. The possibilities are endless.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.11.0, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-11-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.11.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

In App Card Details are here!

Up

Dec 16, 2019

=== blog_up-1-12-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Updates

Claim your Upname

Today is the day. We're rolling out Upnames to all new and existing Up customers. Every customer will now be asked to select a unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Define who you are but choose wisely. Once an Upname is gone, it’s gone!

What's in an Upname?

As of today your Upname will appear on your profile and give you a new more personalised PayID for receiving money into your Up account. Previously, all customers received a generated PayID – a short combination of numbers and letters that served the same purpose, but in a less custom way. A generated PayID looked something like abc123@up.me. With an Upname you can now customise your Up PayID to look like upname@up.me. This should make your Up PayID much easier to remember and share.

That's just the start, the really exciting stuff is just around the corner.

In the coming months you'll be able to send money to your mates on Up using only their Upname. You'll be able to pay upname $10 with just a couple taps. From that payment they can pay you right back. No swapping of details, phone numbers or other personal information is required.

Paying people that aren't close mates is also made better. You no longer need to give out your bank details, phone number or email address to get paid. Your Upname can now do that job.

If you take a look at The Tree of Up you'll see some future plans on the payment branch like requesting money and splitting bills. Having a special mode for payments between Upsiders will let us add new functionality not yet supported by Osko or other payment platforms. We can add new features above and beyond the basics of sending money to another bank account.

As we wrote in our blog post on Up's unique Osko implementation, we believe payments are a conversation. Upnames are a key foundation for allowing us to build the payment experience we think is possible.

How to claim your Upname

To claim your Upname head on over to the Up tab and tap on the new Upname field under your profile photo - Just make sure that you are running the latest version of the app.

Choose wisely, you will only be able to claim your Upname once. Take a second to nail the perfect name before you tap confirm.

More in Version 1.12.0
Your Upcoming payments will be more alert but not alarmed. From now on you'll get a notification 1 day before a payment is due, not 2. That's 24 more hours of you-time, you've earned it.
We fixed a bug where your face was sending you into an infinite loop - not ideal. Now if Face ID / Touch ID fails to register you'll be prompted to enter your passcode instead. No more waiting in the infinite-loading abyss for nothing.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.12.0, Upnames, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Designing Super Powered Events

Events provide a challenge for a team as they offer a rare chance to create a fully immersive customer experience. We take a behind the scenes look at what went into designing the first year of events at Up.

Hannah Gibson

Jan 23, 2020

Self-Review: Travelling with Up

Our Head of Product puts the Up card through its paces on his European honeymoon.

Anson Parker

Jan 16, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-12-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.12.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020

=== blog_up-1-13-2-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Updates

Transfers between Savers

Less steps means less stress. It’s recommended you strap in because this new money mover is built for speed. Barriers are broken - You can now transfer money between Savers. Tap on any of your Savers to get your hands on the new ‘Transfer money’ button. Select your 2 chosen Savers and make your move. Well played.

To transfer money between Savers or to and from Spending just jump into any of your Savers and tap on the new ‘Transfer money’ button. Select the the two Savers to transfer between and pop in the amount. Hit the ‘Swap’ button to change which Savers are moving to and from. Much quicker.

Upcoming Subscription Prompts

We’re picking up what you’re putting down. For some new subscriptions we’ll now ask if you’ve just signed up for a recurring charge before you’ve even made your first full payment. We’ll go ahead and pop those upcoming charges in your Upcoming tab where they belong.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.13.2, Transfer between Savers, Upcoming

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020

New release: Covers & Forwards

Today we're introducing two new verbs to banking: "Covering" and "Forwarding".

Anson Parker

Mar 02, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-13-2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.13.2
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020

=== blog_up-1-13-5-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

Updates

Upsider Payments

The fast just got faster. Now you can pay an Upsider using only their $Upname, that’s it, nothing else, that’s refreshing.

This new way to pay is moving dollars back and forth in a different way. Today it provides a fast, reliable way to shoot cash to other Upsiders. Tomorrow, it will provide the foundation for our epic payments roadmap.

To pay an Upsider via Up tap on the new ‘Pay an Upsider’ option when starting a new payment.

As usual you can shoot an Upsider payment right back. A true Up2Up experience.

Payment Replies

You used to say it best when you said nothing at all. Say goodbye to the sound of silence and prepare to have the last word. You can now reply to a received Upsider payment with an Emoji or a message.

To reply to an Upsider payment just tap on the new ‘Reply’ bubble under a received payment. Throw together a quick message or if you’re truly left speechless just react with an emoji. After all a picture is worth 1000 words.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.13.5, Pay an Upsider, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Retro logos are the best logos.

Anthony Langhorne

Apr 01, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-13-5_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.13.5
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020

=== blog_up-1-13-6-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Updates

Undo Transfers

Become the revert expert. Introducing our first ever feature with Ctrl+Z.

You can now undo a transfer to or from your Saver with a quick tap. There are no mistakes here, just happy little accidents.

Now when you make a transfer to or from a Saver you’ll notice a new undo pop up. If you didn’t nail it the first time you’ll have a few seconds to instantly reverse what you’ve done and have another crack, second time’s the charm.

Attempted Charges

We'll no longer exempt the attempt. Here’s a fresh injection of new activity into your feed.

You'll now receive a notification & an activity item for Attempted charges. If a merchant has attempted to charge your card and was not successful, you'll be the first to know. Rejoice, you have remained in the loop.

Attempted charges are not here for a long time, just here for a good time. These activity items will drop off your activity feed after a couple of days. This is the first of a couple of new activity items you can expect to see over the next few months.

Android Boot Time Improvements

An engine overhaul has given boot times a boost for our Android pals. Speed improvements for the modern age, welcome to the fast lane

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.13.6, Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Retro logos are the best logos.

Anthony Langhorne

Apr 01, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-13-6_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.13.6
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020

=== blog_up-1-13-9-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Updates

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers

Go ahead, take your time, take as long as you need.

Now Auto Transfers from Savers will hit the pause button when there's not enough money to make the move. Resume your regular Automated Transfers right away with a tap or take a little longer and resume at a later date. We'll keep your settings warm until you come back.

To manually Pause an Auto transfer to or from a Saver tap on the ‘Auto Transfer’ option in a Saver and then tap the more options in the top right to hit Pause or remove the automation entirely.

Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Let's get that volume a little bit louder now. You can now spread the word of Up further and faster. Use your $Upname to create a custom Hook up a Mate URL to share with your mates online or off.

Shareable Hook Up a Mate uses your Upname to create a custom link with magical properties that rewards you for sharing.

To enable shareable Hook Up a Mate you need to opt-in by heading to the Hook Up a Mate screen in your app and following the instructions to enable it.

You're now the proud owner of a public webpage with your Upname and profile photo on it. So if you'd rather keep that information on the down low, you can still invite your mates by sending an invite to their mobile number.

If you do opt-in and change your mind you can opt back out at any time (tap the three dots on the Hook Up a Mate screen in the app) and your shareable page will be deactivated.

All the regular invite bonus' still apply, be sure to check out the Hook up a Mate page for the full T&Cs.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.13.9, Automated Transfers, Hook Up a Mate

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-13-9_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.13.9
Back to Blog

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

=== blog_up-1-14-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Updates, Saving and Budgeting

It’s more important than ever to keep your savings spark alive. Numbers can often seem meaningless, cash is not always convenient and even debit cards are feeling a little obsolete.

We’re dedicated to improving the everyday relationship we have with dollars in our accounts. In this release we’re taking a bold visual step in this direction. The goal was simple; encourage better saving habits by making it a fun thing to do.

Saver Pools

Dive in, the water’s just right.

Saver Pools are a new way to visually track and play with your hard saved cash - a reimagining of how money should look in a 100% digital environment. Pump some money into any of your Savers and watch them turn into a buzzing soup of round-ups, regulars, savings and interest.

Your pool moves with you, so you’ll always know where your savings stand with just a quick glance. Fill your Saver pool to the top to reach your goal or drain your dollars out to take your Saver Pool down to a puddle. It’s a real hands on experience.

Round Ups and Auto transfers are now front and centre. When Auto Transfers enabled for a Saver you’ll always be able to see the expected date you will hit your Savings goal.

Whether it’s coins in a piggy bank, stashing cash in the sock drawer or a Saver Pool filled to the brim, there is a heck of a buzz to reaching your savings goals and getting what you want! Jump into any of your Savers to take a dip in your digital pool of funds.

Saver Goal Notifications

Go you good thing! Sometimes everyone needs a little bit of encouragement from the sidelines. Now you’ll get a notification when you’ve hit 25%, 50% and 75% of your target Saver goal. Just a gentle reminder that you’re on your way to Savings greatness. Hit 100% of your goal to really get the party started..

iOS Widget Updates

Get more at a glance. We’ve updated our iOS widget to show more info on all your accounts. See your Spending balance and last transaction, then expand to see balances across your Savers and keep tabs on your stash. Another tool in the kit to keep you on top.

Biometric Fixes

Upsiders with certain Android devices (all OnePlus devices with in-screen fingerprint readers on Oxygen OS) were having issues with logging in or stepping up with their fingerprint. We’ve fixed up biometrics and what was once great is now great again. No infinite loop for you.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.14.0, Saver Pools, Saver Goals, Saving, iOS widgets

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-14-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.14.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

=== blog_up-1-14-2-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

Updates, Saving and Budgeting

1% Pay Splitting Increments

Pay Splitting lets you carve up your pay into a bunch of different savings accounts before you spend it on stuff you don’t want or need, an easier way to stockpile for your lifestyle. Now Pay Splitting is getting a smaller percentile. You can now instantly carve up your payday cash to the nearest 1% and choose your own savings adventure.

We’ve also turned up the useful information generator and pumped more of it into your activity feed, labelling the source of every split in your saver. Handy.

Actionable Covers & Forwards

Shoot quick from the hip, you're the real sheriff in town. iOS users, now you can initiate a Cover for your purchases and a Forward for your deposits right from your notifications.

How it works - Up notifications for a purchase or an incoming payment will now be actionable right from your notification screen. Long press it to get started: that’ll automatically kick open Up and the cover / forward drawer. Make a habit of covering and forwarding in the moment, and you’ve just built yourself the most powerful money management system in town.

New to covers and forwards? We got you, covered. Read on.

The Up API

Calling all daredevil devs and exploratory engineers. The first version of the Up API is officially open for business. It’s your data, so have at it (securely) and go build that confetti cannon that fires on payday. Head to our developer page to get started.

Changes to Saver Pools

It’s dry season and the pools are shrinking. We've brought down the size of Saver pools so you can see a little more transaction action.

You'll see some better pool performance but other than that — same great recipe; same great flavour.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.14.2, Pay Splitting, Covers, Forwards, API, Development

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-14-2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.14.2
Back to Blog

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

=== blog_up-1-15-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

Updates

International Payments powered by TransferWise

Make breaking down borders a breeze. We’re very excited to announce that International payments powered by TransferWise have arrived. Now you can get a fast, easy and cheap way to move your money overseas all from your Up app! Move money in for 48 different currencies, no surprise fees and a super fast set up.

Head over to the payments tab in your app to create a new International Payment. If you already have a TransferWise account all you need to do is log in and start sending. If you're a newbie, that's cool too! Creating a TransferWise account is no big: you can take care of it in the Up app with just a couple of taps.

Learn more about our TransferWise integration head over to our new TransferWise page.

Relax and move freely around the cabin, paying friends and family overseas has officially reached cruising altitude ✈️

#More insights into Monthly Insights

Monthly Insights will now tell you if you're on track to be the hero of your savings story. Now you can quickly see total change in your Savers, total savings in or out for the month, as well as, total payments and total purchases. You're now a professor of precision with total clarity.

Tap on any of the monthly headings in your Activity Feed to view your Monthly Insights 📲

Up API Changelog

There will be no changes getting past you. To get your hands on any changes or improvements to our API be sure to head over to the API Changelog on GitHub. If you want to receive all updates to this changelog, click the "Subscribe" button in the Github sidebar.

Latest Changelog:

🐛 Various bugfixes and tweaks

📝 Add optional description to webhooks

🏷️ Add tags

🏷️ List all tags

🔗 See which tags are associated with a transaction

See the tags field in the relationships section

🔍 Filter transactions by tag

See the filter[tag] query parameter

🔗 Add/remove tags to transactions

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.15.0, Transferwise, Wise

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-15-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.15.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020

=== blog_up-1-16-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Updates

##Up Widgets

Home sweet home screen. Get more at a glance with Up widgets.

Go ahead and sprinkle a selection of your home screen with a small window into your financial life for both iOS and Android. Break out of the app and add a pocket size version of your accounts so you can easily keep your eyes on the prize at all times.

##iOS14 Widgets

With some help from iOS14 you can now add a small size Up widget to your iOS home screen. Add an Activity widget to display your available balance and recent transaction, or a Savers widget to check your balance, activity or progress for one or all of your Savers.

##Android Widgets

The wait is over - equal widgets . Add an Up widget to your compatible Android device and check your available balance, keep eyes on an individual Saver or see all of your Savings in one hit.

Note: If you don’t want iOS or Android widgets to show any data ever, you can enable or disable ‘Allow Widgets’ from the ‘Security’ menu of the Up app.

##Eftpos for Apple Pay

Another tool on the belt and another network to pay. Upsiders using Apple Pay can now pay using either Mastercard® (CR) or the Eftpos network (SAV). Set a preferred payment option or make the choice when you pay.

To enable your card for eftpos support, you'll need to remove it and then re-provision it from the Wallet app using the manual card entry or card scanning method - so make sure you’ve got your card handy!

Stay tuned for Eftpos support for instant in-app provisioning.

##Allow Contacts Settings

Here's a new paver in our future payments path. Decide in your Payment Settings if other Upsiders in your phone contacts can see that you're using Up. Opt-out of being visible to other Upsiders with your mobile number alone. Your future network will be as big as you want it to be.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.16.0, iOS Widgets, Android Widgets, EFTPOS

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-16-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.16.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

=== blog_up-1-17-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.17.0 Release notes

Updates

Contacts on Up

Get hands on with people powered Payments. We’ve reworked our payment experience making it faster and easier to pay your existing contacts.

After allowing access you’ll be able to search your phone contact list to easily find and pay your mates on the Upside. Find your contact and if they’ve not yet an Upsider you can attempt to pay their mobile PayID or, while you’re there, send them an invite to Up with just a tap. It’d be rude not to really. Use Search and you shall find payment contacts you’ve sent cash to in the past for speedy

The payments flow is now silky smooth baking your contacts right in. Osko, Bank detail and Upsider payments are all rolled Up into one. Tap 'Pay Someone' to get going.

Go Incognito

If you travel in many circles and you want to stay on the down low. You can opt out of other Upsiders with you in their mobile contacts to see your profile photo and Upname. To appear without Upsider treatment turn off "Allow contacts to see I'm on Up" from your Payment Settings menu in the app. It’ll be our secret.

Grow Up

If you import your phone contacts Hook Up a Mate can now show you a list of which of your mates are yet to sign Up. Tap into your circle of contacts to invite with just a tap and quickly spread the word. No doubles or do-overs, you’ll know right away if someone in your contacts has been invited before.

Utilize the power of your people. Look at you go, you’ve always been the savvy one in the group.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.17.0

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-17-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.17.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.17.0 Release notes

Faster payments experience with Contacts on Up.

Up

Nov 05, 2020

=== blog_up-1-18-1-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

Updates

iOS14 Monthly Insights widgets

Once again, let’s juice Up your home screen with some widget magic – A new stat for your stack. At any given time our new Insights iOS widget will show you where you're at with your spending on Good Life, Personal, Home and Transport. Grab a quick glance into your financial life to see if you’re sinking too much spending into a particular category. Check yourself, before you wreck yourself...financially..for the month.

If numbers aren’t your thing, Initialise the spending visualiser to experience your own data driven particle pyramid without leaving the comfort of your home (screen). As you spend more across each category your Insights visualiser will change colours depending on your dominant categories.

To add an Up iOS widget to your home screen touch and hold a widget or an empty area until the apps jiggle and tap the ‘add’ button in the top left corner.

Android pals, your versions are coming a little later 💕

Note: If you don’t want iOS or Android widgets to show any data ever, you can enable or disable ‘Allow Widgets’ from the ‘Security’ menu of the Up app.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.18.1, Insights, iOS Widgets

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Stopping Payment Abuse: How Up is Designing for Safety

In July 2020, we got a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abusive chat messages through Up. By August, we’d built new code to find payment abuse, and designed a new approach to stopping abuse on Up.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith

Feb 26, 2021

Request money and say goodbye to OMT

Don't let Owed Money Tension get you down. When the sacred bonds of mateship don’t get you your money back when you need it, you can now request money from your mates on Up.

Up

Feb 15, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-18-1_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.18.1
Back to Blog

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021

=== blog_up-1-4-3_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.4.3
Back to Blog

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Emoji saver icons, change your mobile number, grouped transactions, and card controls.

Up

May 08, 2019

=== blog_up-1-4-4_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.4.4
Back to Blog

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

New statements, new loaders, new emoji and skin tone support.

Up

May 22, 2019

=== blog_up-1-4-5_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.4.5
Back to Blog

Up 1.4.5 Release Notes

Transaction tagging, contact icons, new card ordering.

Up

Jun 06, 2019

=== blog_up-1-5-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.5.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019

=== blog_up-1-6-1-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.6.1 Release Notes

Updates

It’s time to get lifted! We’ve jacked up the volume and Round Ups will now go to $11.. or $12.. or $16… The power lies within you. Embrace it.

Rounding Up purchases to the nearest dollar has already helped a bunch of you save some cash that you wouldn’t usually save. We are super excited to take this to the next level.

Boosted Round Ups

Supercharge your savings with Boosted Round Ups. In addition to your regular round up you can choose to dial it up a notch and add a little extra to your purchase. From your saver tap Round Ups and just slide that slider for an extra $1 - $10 to be slammed into a saver whenever you use your card. Let the good times roll.

Even Dollar Purchases

Previously even dollar purchases wouldn’t get a round up. No more! You can now toggle your even dollar purchases to round up a whole $1. You’re the real winner here - you just saved $1 😎 Save a dollar here, save a dollar there. You’ll end up with a couple of dollars. Doesn’t get much better than that.

To see the breakdown of your round ups for a purchase just go ahead and tap on the transaction from your Activity feed.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.6.1, Round Ups

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-6-1_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.6.1
Back to Blog

Up 1.6.1 Release Notes

Boosted Round Ups and Even Dollar Round Ups.

Up

Jul 31, 2019

=== blog_up-1-6-5-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Updates

BPAY®

Praise be unto the holy lords of bill payments. Today is the day to rejoice! BPAY payments are now available on Up.

Send those bills to the hallowed lands with swift justice. Equipped with your BPAY Biller Code and Customer Reference Number (CRN for you BPAY enthusiasts out there) you are now a bill paying powerhouse. Claim your new payment method in the same place as your other payment methods.

Swipe over to the payments tab to start a new payment and tap on BPAY biller to begin your journey.

Upsider Payments

It’s an unspoken bond. A feeling you can’t un-feel. Up to Up payments are delivering a new kind of connection.

When paying other Upsiders using PayID you’ll be greeted with your pals Profile Photo and Preferred Name - see, told you those profile photos would be used for something.

There are no strangers here. Up to Up payments will auto identify as a new contact, and to top it off, you can now immediately shoot back a reply payment.

Life is a conversation, so let’s rap.

Head over to the Payments tab to see the changes.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.6.5, BPAY, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.6.1 Release Notes

Boosted Round Ups and Even Dollar Round Ups.

Up

Jul 31, 2019

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-6-5_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.6.5
Back to Blog

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019

=== blog_up-1-8-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Updates

Scheduled Payments

Live in the moment, or live it later, up to you. Scheduled Payments have arrived. Specify a specific date and time for your outgoing payment to be sent. Your future self is proud of you for thinking ahead, well done.

You can schedule a payment the same way you make a regular payment. Before sending tap on the new 'options' button to reveal your payment customisation.

Use the date picker to pick your desired date and time. Your payment will patiently wait in the shadows until it is time to leave the nest.

We’ll go ahead a pop that payment in-between your other Upcoming payments so you can keep on top of it.

Repeating Payments

Feel like history is repeating? You can now repeat payments every day, week, fortnight or month. That’s working smart, not hard.

To set a Payment to repeat just go ahead and tap on the new ‘options’ button before sending a payment. Specify your repeat frequency from the options and sit back, relax and let the payments roll. To check up on your repeating payments either pop into the payment thread from your Payments screen, or mosey on down to your Upcoming tab, we’ll keep all your repeat payments there too!

Salary Identification

Let’s make Pay day a great(er) day. You can now identify your salary and get a better view of those delicious incoming pays + correct company names and logos. Money in is a win.

For the majority of Upsiders getting their Salary paid into their Up account, you’ll notice a newly updated contact with correct company name and logo. If we’ve missed some you can manually identify a contact as your salary by tapping on the new ‘This is my Pay/ Salary’ open when identifying an incoming payment.

New Category Icons

Our older icons have moved onto retirement. We thank them for 10 months of loyal service, what a ride. We’ve brought in some new & fresh icons to every one of our categories. Here’s to moving with the times 🍻

Check out the new gang by tapping on your ‘Monthly Summary’ and sifting through the categories.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.8.0, Payments, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019

Up 1.6.1 Release Notes

Boosted Round Ups and Even Dollar Round Ups.

Up

Jul 31, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-8-0_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.8.0
Back to Blog

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019

=== blog_up-1-9-3-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Updates

Time for a little money magic 🔮💸

Automate your way to a better day with Auto Transfers.

Auto Transfers to Savers

Shift your Savers into gear & automatically move money from your spend account to any one of your savers. Just let us know the frequency and the amount, we’ll take care of the heavy lifting.

To start creating Auto Transfers to Savers just head on over to the Saver you would like to transfer to and tap on the Auto Transfer icon.

Set the speed at which your Savers shall swell. You can set an Auto Transfer to deposit into a Saver every week, fortnight or month.

We’ll remember even if you don’t; Auto Transfers to Savers will be added to your Upcoming screen for future planning.

Auto Transfers From Savers

Put that thing down flip it and reverse it. Turn Auto Transfers on it’s head and move money from your Savers to your spend account, you guessed it…Automatically.

Set yourself an allowance so you don’t spend tomorrow money today.

To create an Auto Transfer from a Saver to your Spend account simply navigate to the saver you’d like to transfer from and tap on the Auto Transfer Icon.

Set your Auto Transfer to withdrawal and let us know how you like it.

Pay yourself every week, fortnight, month or even daily!

If your auto transfer should tumble due to lack of funds, we’ll flick you a notification and just turn it off. Auto Transfer again whenever you’re ready.

Instant Samsung Pay

Lace up those trainers and break out the sweat bands. Samsung customers can now hit the ground running with Instant Samsung Pay! Activate Samsung Pay before your physical card arrives. Satisfy the need for speed.

Samsung Pay joins Apple and Google Pay in the Up instant provisioning club.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.9.3, Saving, Samsung Pay, Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

CSV: Custom Savings Viewer

CSV export is (finally) here - and we've got a starting point for you to play with.

David Buchan-Swanson

Oct 31, 2019

Pay Day

Introducing Salary Identification and Split Payments. Pay day just got a whole lot better with Up.

Mark Brown

Oct 17, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-1-9-3_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 1.9.3
Back to Blog

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

=== blog_up-2-0-2-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Updates

Pay Splitting into 2Up

Save a little for you, and now save some for 2.

You can now split a percentage of your pay directly into your 2Up spending account, with Pay Splitting.

Spell out your splitting rules from your identified salary or funding contact and we’ll automatically split your payday cash to send it where it needs to go.

Automatically split your pay between your personal and 2Up spending or ANY of your Savers. Will you split off a small portion of pay, or set sail the fattest of stacks? The decision on that divide rests with you.

If you haven’t yet moved your salary across to Up you can also enable Pay Splitting for your funding accounts. Or, simply ask your employer to move your pay across to Up to take advantage of these features automatically on pay day.

Read more about splitting your pay here

2Up on watchOS

More wrist related improvements means 2Up is now supported on watchOS. You can now check your 2Up balance, view your shared spending activity and keep an even closer eye on your 2Up shared Trackers.

Get even more control over your cards with card controls now supporting your 2Up card. Block or Unblock your card instantly from your wrist.

Tap ‘Switch to 2Up’ on your watch app to see all things shared 💕

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 2.0.2, 2Up, watchOS

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Building Up an Emergency Fund

Let’s call it financial self-defence. Here’s how you can use Up to prep for that unexpected moment when life loads a bazooka with your name on it.

Up

Mar 31, 2021

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-2-0-2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 2.0.2
Back to Blog

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021

=== blog_up-2-0-4-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

Updates

2Up Automated Transfers

Here’s to taking the stress out of the top up! 🥂 Up v2.0.4 welcomes the first expansion pack for 2Up. Now you can set up Automated Transfers in and out of your 2Up and personal spending.

To create your 2Up Auto Transfers, pull down on your 2Up Activity feed to reveal your quick actions and tap Auto Transfers. Pay yourself an allowance and set an auto transfer to regularly move money into both your personal spending accounts from 2Up. Or feed two birds with one scone and tap ‘Set up both’ for you and your player 2 to get equal treatment.

If you prefer to spend as two, just set the amount/frequency and we’ll make sure your 2Up is regularly topped up from your personal spending.

Stay tuned for 2Up Savers to open more lanes of automated transfers in the future.

Send FJD with International Payments

Burst out a big "Bula" and welcome Fijian Dollars to the currency crew for international payments powered by Wise. Now send FJD to friends and family living in the Soft Coral Capital of the World.

Learn more about international payments

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 2.0.4, 2Up, International Payments

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up is Open for Business with Open Banking

Up has been certified for Open Banking. This means you can now safely share your Up data with certified third party apps, like budgeting platforms or loan providers.

Up

Jun 22, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-2-0-4_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 2.0.4
Back to Blog

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

=== blog_up-2-0-5_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 2.0.5
Back to Blog

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

=== blog_up-2-1-7-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Updates

Fixed amount Pay Splitting

Set your Splits in stone. Now you can add exact dollar amounts for the important stuff when Pay Splitting into your Savers.

Adjust your split with precision and take care of your goals that need it most. When your pay hits your account we’ll automatically split your fixed amounts first. Rent, repayments, bills and birthday pressies. Just set and forget.

Once your fixed splits are taken care of, let the rest of your pay peel off by a percentage by dragging the split slider for each Saver. We’ll always let you know if your next expected payment won’t be enough to cover your split.

Save on auto-pilot with Pay Splitting
Learn more about Pay Splitting

Set up or edit your Pay Splitting by tapping on your identified salary or funding account payment thread in your Payments tab.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 2.1.7, Payments, Pay Splitting

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

By choosing Spendable balance, you can see only what’s safe to spend. Same money: less worry.

Anson Parker

Sep 28, 2021

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-2-1-7_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up 2.1.7
Back to Blog

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021

=== blog_up-apple-watch-app_.txt ===

Up Apple Watch App

Building Up, Updates

As of version 1.13.0, we've updated our Apple Watch app to support transfers between your savers and spending account, along with improving the navigation to follow a hierarchical structure as opposed to page based layout - and given the UI a big refresh to handle larger merchant/saver names and support for emojis, amongst other subtle enhancements.

We recently released our Apple Watch app for Up, and have been delighted to see its uptake and use by our customers.

Designing and developing for the Apple Watch was quite different than the iPhone app – the nature of the device favours quick interactions for specific tasks, and with the most recent watches supporting cellular data, having access to your banking data while on the go, either with or without your iPhone we saw as being highly desirable.

After reviewing many other banking Apple Watch apps, we also wanted to have something more functional and useful than just providing access to your balance or your nearest ATM, and something more powerful that doesn't need to rely on the presence of your counterpart iPhone app for data or updates.

Registration

Once installed the watch app registers itself as its own independent first class Up citizen. This process happens via one of two possible ways, using either our proximity based registration method if your iPhone is nearby, or by providing your mobile number to the watch app and performing an OTP/passcode based authentication.

The proximity based method is preferred and offers a great customer experience by leveraging the fact you have an authenticated Up device nearby. It registers and authenticates your watch app quickly and seamlessly for you on your behalf, and means no OTP nor passcode data entry is required on the smaller watch screen. You'll also notice a HomePod/AirPods inspired setup UI in the Up iOS app. 🙂

Activity, savers, card controls and savers

Once registered, the app provides a hierarchical based layout, with access to your recent activity, card controls and savers.

Your recent activity shows the 20 most recent activity items, which can be a combination of transactions and/or events. Tapping on a transaction will bring up a receipt screen showing the primary details for that transaction, eg time, merchant name and logo, etc.

For savers you can also transfer funds in between your savers and spending account, using the digital crown to dial in the desired transfer amount and toggle the transfer direction.

There is a lot more information on your iPhone for a given transaction and the ability to jump to merchant insights, so we've integrated handoff support when viewing a receipt (and navigating the watch app in general) to jump to the corresponding receipt screen on the iPhone, without needing to browse/search for that same transaction.

For card controls, you have direct access to the status of your card, and can block or unblock your card. This feature was taken from a recent scenario where one of our customers had lost their iPhone and wallet while cycling to work, and wanted an instant method of being able to secure their card.

Complications

On the watch face you have access to an Up complication. We support all text based complication types across the various watch faces for showing your Up account balance, and in the case of the graphic rectangular complication that has room for more information, we also additionally show your most recent activity item.

Push notifications

Receiving push notifications are another big use case for the watch, so we've also included a custom push notification UI. You'll notice that transactions notifications include a custom layout and the merchant logo when available, along with support chats and payments that include a relevant icon.

Siri

Up also supports Siri on the Apple Watch similar to the iPhone app, you can currently ask your Apple Watch to check your balance, or transfer funds from your Up account to a saver. For example “Check my bank balance”, or “transfer $5 to my holiday account”.

Under the hood the Up watch app talks directly to our Up servers via its own network connection for data, and we have a few strategies in place for keeping its content up to date. The watch app has a regular schedule that it follows for requesting data in the background from the Up servers. In addition, asynchronous events will update the watch app when notifications are delivered to the watch app directly, eg. purchases, payments, etc, or are triggered via the counterpart iPhone app via watch connectivity.

Feedback

We are really excited to see the Apple Watch app for Up available for us and we're keen to add support for more features in the future. If you have any feedback, please let us know, we'd love to hear from you.

The Up Apple Watch app is available from Up versions 1.4.0 onwards.

Marcus Crafter

Engineer

@crafterm

Tags: Apple Watch, Technology, Development, Innovation

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.4.5 Release Notes

Transaction tagging, contact icons, new card ordering.

Up

Jun 06, 2019

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

New statements, new loaders, new emoji and skin tone support.

Up

May 22, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-card-vs-zap-card_.txt ===

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

For years Up's debit card weight class has been dominated by the notorious Up Plastic Card. Through and through a traditional spender, Up Plastic has long demonstrated to Upsiders the strength of the physical medium and made a name for itself as the default debit card for making purchases online and instore.

In a world class shake up, 2022 saw the entrance of the Zap Card: a fresh challenger with an appetite for digital domination. The Zap Card's instant speed advantage, ability to not require manual verification and compelling convenience has left the people wondering – Which Up Card should I be using? Will Up Physical or Digital come out on top?

It's a clash of the titans, as these two debit cards go head-to-head to determine who reigns supreme in the world of spending. We'll go through, round by round, each of these dominating debit cards unique features and considerations. It’s up to you to determine which card will reign supreme in your wallet. Let’s spend some time breaking down the action.

WHY 2 CARDS BUT 1 ACCOUNT?

Originally there was a single plastic card. While Upsiders could add it to their digital wallet during sign-up, they couldn't see card details until they received the card in the mail.

This is based on security — if an Upsider could read and use their card details before they received the physical card, so too could a bad actor if they intercepted the physical card. This is why we have an activation step: it proves the card arrived safely into the possession of the correct Upsider.

Still spending from the same account, the Zap Card offers a different take. This card is instantly issued as soon as you sign up for an Up account. You'll get access to your card details right away in app and the ability to add the card to your digital wallet of choice. No activation needed and no waiting for a plastic card in the mail.

For the first time the Zap Card opened up a choice, if I’m not waiting for my card and card details to arrive in the mail, why am I waiting to start setting up subscriptions and shopping online?

DIGITAL ZAP CARD

Coming out of the card creation camp at a blazing pace, Zap Cards are ready to roll with you from day one. If you’re freshly signed up to Up you’ll have a digital Zap Card waiting for you in the ‘Cards’ menu of the app. Packing speed and performance where it counts, this digital only card gives you instant access to a set of card details so it's perfect to start setting up your direct debits, shopping online, or getting your digital wallet set up fast.

Zap Cards bring a previously unseen stance to your app facing only in a horizontal orientation and always wearing the signature Zap Sunglasses logo.

Here’s the tale of the tape: A breakdown of Zap Card’s unique technique:

Instantly issued with Card Details available right away in app.
Great for bills and digital wallets
Expires every 5 years (instead of the standard 3)
Available only in app. Hard to be stolen and can be regenerated instantly if the details are compromised
Doesn't work with ATMs or other places you're required to insert or swipe a physical card
Reliant on a device. Doesn’t cope well with flat batteries
PLASTIC UP CARD

The unchallenged veteran of swiping and inserting. Forged in a layer plastic, the Up Card is a sure fire way to ensure your spending is covered no matter what situation you’re in. Up Cards stand tall in a portrait orientation and are delivered via post to Upsiders after they sign up. Once your Plastic Up card arrives at your door, an in app activation is required to bring this reliable spender to life. An Up card can still be added to your digital wallets for in store and online purchases, making this card a real hybrid in the spending space.

In a quickly digitising world, here's how the grandmaster Plastic Up Card stacks up:

Works at ATMs and for in-person payments where contactless isn't accepted
A recommended overseas travel companion
Waterproof!
Doesn't rely on the batteries of a digital device
Takes a while to arrive via the post
Can physically be lost/stolen
If it's lost or stolen, all billers and other merchants need to be updated with new card details
COMPLETE CONTROL

No matter if you’re spending out of the plastic or digital corner the ‘Cards’ menu in your Up app is your one-stop-shop for all your Card Controls. Both your Zap and Up Card have complete control available at your fingertips. Set individual PINs, enable or disable all kinds of transactions and grab yourself a new card/card details if your Cards are lost or stolen.

The Cards menu in-app will give you up to date status updates on either of your day to day financial fighters. Swipe between any of your active or inactive cards to put you at the centre of the card configuration action.

A NEW CHALLENGER APPROACHES?

Keep it dialled in on Up for more info of a new card available soon…

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Up Card, Zap Card, Digital Cards, Spending, Card Controls

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

New Year’s resolutions feel good to make, but there’s a smarter way to change. Upsider Anna shares her secret to really saving.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

Jan 04, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-card_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up Card
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

=== blog_up-cycling-core-banking_.txt ===

Up-cycling core banking

Building Up

Up is treading a different path to most other digital banks in that it’s being developed through a collaboration between a software company (us) and a so-called “traditional bank” (Bendigo Bank). This article explores that relationship in more detail and hopes to give you a better understanding of why we think it’s the right approach for delivering a new bank.

In an earlier blog post, Rebooting Transactions, we outlined the core ingredients we believe are needed to underpin a truly modern banking platform. To refresh your memory, they were:

A complete data picture
A relational, meaningful data model
A real-time, event-based architecture

Delivering a platform with those qualities is a big challenge. And of course it still needs to do all the things a core banking system must do – comply with the many and complex regulatory requirements; generate countless reports; satisfy all manner of auditing needs; the list goes on (it really does).

If you’re anything like us, your eyes are already starting to glaze over. Why would anyone in their right mind want to build such a system from scratch? Most of your time is going to be spent learning how to build all those core banking bits that are massively important but incredibly intricate and time consuming to develop. We had to ask ourselves, is that really the thing we want to focus on?

“If you wish to make an apple pie from scratch, you must first invent the universe” — Carl Sagan

What if we could deliver those essential ingredients but do so on top of an existing banking core system that took care of all the “banky” stuff for us? Well we think we can and that’s exactly the approach we’ve taken with Up.

By teaming up with Bendigo we’ve found a great match. They are willing and able to provide us with a dependable and trusted core banking system we can “up-cycle” and develop on top of. Just as importantly, they really believe in what we want to achieve with Up: a platform that helps people better understand where their money goes and encourages them to build savings, while having a bit of fun along the way.

Having an ADI (the banking license that lets you take customer deposits) and a core banking system are the absolute foundations needed for a digital bank. With Bendigo’s backing, Up receives that out of the box. That’s a huge leg-up over our competition. Only time will tell how many of them can clear that hurdle on their own.

“Green fields” projects are undoubtedly a siren song to software teams. Opportunities to start projects from scratch don’t come around all that often in a developer’s career and letting them go can be tough. We won’t claim that there are never challenges or frustrations in building against a traditional core banking system. But we do celebrate the fact that every risk and compliance meeting avoided gives us more time to focus on developing the features that actually matter to our customers.

And the fact that this approach means we can stay a small enough team that we can still sit around the (admittedly crowded) lunch table for a meal every day is all the validation we need to know we’re on the right track.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Sustainability

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Lock it Up!

Keeping your money safe is at the heart of everything we do at Up. But effective security doesn’t need to get in your way.

Anson Parker

Aug 09, 2018

Rebooting Transactions

The humble banking transaction is perhaps the fundamental unit of your financial life. It represents everything from your daily spending and regular bills through to your income and interest payments. It is the key to understanding where your money actually goes, yet it’s one of the most neglected and outdated parts of today’s banking experience.

Anson Parker

Feb 07, 2018
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-high_.txt ===

Up High

Up High

The Making of Up High

Last month we launched Up High Early Access — a chance to join us on the journey and participate in shaping Up High, our subscription offering launching later in 2024. This post is a look at why we’re building it, what it could become, and why you might consider joining Early Access.

Fee-less Entry

When we launched Up back in October 2018 fees were everywhere in banking — monthly fees, ATM fees, foreign exchange fees. Ugh. As bank customers ourselves, we were not fans of these fees. So given the chance to build our own bank we did our best to delete as many of them as we could. We were proud to launch Up with no monthly or FX fees. And when you look at banking today, 5 years on, there seem to be fewer and fewer banks charging them. We like to think we might have played a small role in that change.

So if we don’t believe customers should have to pay monthly fees for a great transactional banking experience why then are we introducing a subscription offering? A set of features for a monthly cost — isn’t that just a bank fee by another name? We’d argue not.

Up High is a subscription product with a monthly cost, but unlike a typical bank fee, you only pay up if you want to! Up High does not represent the pay-walling of Up, where things that used to be free now attract a charge. It is vitally important to us that paying for Up High should not be a path to greater security, accessibility or financial well-being. And that we continue to innovated with and strengthen our core, free experience.

A subscription offering will, however, enable us to build out more advanced features, perhaps only desireable to a smaller subset of customers —  features that would otherwise have been very unlikely to see the light of day. Our Notes & Attachments feature is a an example of this. Recently added to Up High Early Access, it's a feature vitally important to the few, and less critical to the many. Having a paying subscriber base gives us capacity to go deeper on customisation and configuration options, while maintaining a strong and intuitive core product. And excitingly, beyond the power-user features, Up High will allow us to explore new spaces, be they in brand partnerships, software experiences or in-person events.

Permission To Launch

Before heading down this path it was important to us we consult with Upsiders and get a temperature check. Would anyone be interested in a subscription offering? Was this even a good idea?

In August last year we asked over 60,000 Upsiders whether they’d be interested in a subscription offering. We presented a set of features and benefits we thought might make such a proposition attractive. Of the Upsiders who were interested, we had them rank those features in order of appeal. For those who weren’t interested, we wanted to understand why, so set up short surveys to capture objections.

This consultative approach has been central to how we’ve approached the roll-out of a subscription offering. We want to develop something that offers genuine value that Upsiders are happy, not reluctant, to pay for. We want to build it carefully and collaboratively. And we’re still early in that journey.

Last year’s survey was a key validation checkpoint. Minimal interest would have sent us a strong signal to reconsider the idea. In fact, interest levels were off the charts — more than 3 in 4 Upsiders expressed interest in Up High.

This result armed us with confidence to move into the next phase of Up High — validating the value. Are the features and benefits we’re building for Up High worth paying for every month? It’s this question that is at the heart of this next phase of Up High: Early Access.

Early Access

Rather than spending months or years developing features in the dark, culminating in a big bang launch, we want to bring interested Upsiders along with us on the journey as we build the offering out. This means launching with something pretty basic and taking it from there.

Early Access will be a program that regularly improves as we release new features and benefits. It will run until we get confidence that we’ve got something participants both love and would happily pay for. How long will that take? Our guess is that it’ll likely be some time in the second half of this year, but it could take longer.

When we eventually get to the point we believe Up High is ready to launch, Early Access participants will get the first 3 months free. We’re very excited by the potential of Up High — we think it should become an absolute no-brainer for a significant number of Upsiders, and that the value in it will far outweigh the monthly subscription cost. Even once Up High has launched, we plan to continue to develop features and offer great benefits to subscribers.

Up High is not about a redirection of effort from our free offering. We are absolutely committed to making Up the best it can possibly be, and extending our lead over the rest of the industry. Up High provides us with the opportunity to do even more — to create a team aiming to reach for even greater heights and explore the galaxy of what the brand can become. Doing things differently is something that sets Up apart. And Up High gives us the means to do more of that.

What’s Next?

Since launching Early Access we’ve already shipped a new feature — Notes & Attachments. With it, you can add notes and photos to your transactions. Great for adding the “what” or “why” to a purchase you’ll otherwise forget or capturing a receipt for long-term storage. Thousands of Early Access participants are using that feature as we speak.

Currently, much of our focus is on one of the bigger features we proposed in our Expression of Interest survey — the Essentials Saver. This is a separate account for bills that will contain the smarts to automatically transfer just the right amount of money from your spending account to cover your regular bills. Being a separate account, it’s “fire-walled” off so the money can’t be touched. It earns interest. It might do some other cool stuff too. We’re aiming to release it some time over the next few months.

We’ll also be looking to push out a few smaller features over the coming months, so jump on Talk To Us and let us know if there’s something in particular you’re hanging for.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Up High

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Auto Covers Preview Release

For a deep dive into the what, why and how behind Auto Covers, hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker, as he takes us on a journey back through time, before moving forward into the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 06, 2024

UpYear is Here!

Let’s wrap up your 2023. Get your Spending and Saving insights from the other side.

Up

Dec 19, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-home_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Up Home
Back to Blog

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

=== blog_up-integrates-with-transferwise_.txt ===

TransferWise integrates with Up

Building Up, Spending and Budgeting

TransferWise is now live! Read all about it here

Media Release

TransferWise, the global technology company for international payments, launches TransferWise for Banks in Australia, announcing a partnership with Australia’s first digital bank, Up (that’s us! 😏). This first of its kind offering allows banks, credit unions and other financial institutions to integrate TransferWise’s API directly into their own infrastructure.

More than 130,000 Upsiders will be able to send money abroad in 52 currencies directly from their transaction account, powered by TransferWise’s lightning fast, low-cost transfers without needing to leave their Up app.

The integration with TransferWise makes Up the first Australian bank to provide international money transfers with no exchange rate markups, setting the stage for the rest of the banking sector, in-line with the recommendations put forward by the ACCC. Up customers will know upfront exactly how much they’ll pay in fees and the corresponding amount they’ll receive in the foreign currency.

The TransferWise for Banks launch in Australia, follows a succession of bank partnerships across Europe, including Monzo in the UK, Bunq in the Netherlands, N26 in Germany and LHV in Estonia. TransferWise has also announced a partnership with BPCE, France’s second largest bank and more recently in the US with Novo, a banking platform for small businesses, freelancers and startup founders, and Stanford FCU, a credit union that serves the Stanford University community and tech companies in the Bay Area.

The TransferWise and Up partnership came about from a shared mission to simplify and bring greater transparency in the traditional banking sector.

Bringing TransferWise for Banks to Australia is another positive step towards our vision of everyone getting a fast, cheap, transparent way to send money abroad and we’re thrilled to have Up on board as our first Australian partner.

By plugging into our API, Up just became the fastest and cheapest to use in Australia for international payments. In fact, Australians staying with traditional providers could end up paying between 5-8x more than Up customers, who will have a seamless, low-cost TransferWise experience without leaving the Up app.

TransferWise and Up have been looking forward to this day for some time. We share a common vision to modernise an outdated financial system and provide a fair and transparent banking experience for consumers. Working together is a very natural fit and we’re excited for this to be the first of many bank partnerships in Australia and the broader Asia Pacific region.

We’re excited that Up customers can now access international payments through our partnership with TransferWise. We’re pleased to bring two great fintech brands together to set a new standard in banking and international transfers. Up is about providing clever ways to organise your money and simplify your life. This partnership is another way we’re giving our customers the freedom to simply live their lives, doing the things they love.

Joining forces with TransferWise to make international payments simpler for Up customers is awesome. By using TransferWise, Up customers will be able to send money cheaper and faster than sending money with traditional banks. TransferWise joins Up’s portfolio of partners including founding partners Ferocia and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, Mastercard, Google, and Afterpay. It’s another exciting step in our growth story.

TransferWise via Up will roll-out in a private beta next month, with a full launch to follow shortly after.

About TransferWise

TransferWise is a global technology company that’s building the best way to move money around the world. Whether you’re sending money to another country, spending money abroad, or making and receiving international business payments, TransferWise is on a mission to make your life easier and save you money.

Co-founded by Taavet Hinrikus and Kristo Käärmann, TransferWise launched in 2011. It is one of the world’s fastest growing tech firms having raised $692m in primary and secondary funding from investors such as Lead Edge, Lone Pine, Vitruvian, IVP, Merian Global Investors, Andreessen Horowitz, Sir Richard Branson, Valar Ventures and Max Levchin of PayPal. Over six million people use TransferWise, which processes over £4bn in payments every month, saving customers over £1bn a year.

Media Contacts
Anhar Khanbhai for TransferWise: anhar.khanbhai@transferwise.com
Anne Shea for Up: media@up.com.au

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Wise, TransferWise, Technology, Innovation, Development

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-merchant-logos-back-to-the-past_.txt ===

Up merchant logos: back to the past.

Building Up

While you were sleeping last night we were up late in the lab. We’re very proud to say that after some tweaking to the flux capacitor, Up’s merchant identification systems successfully hit 88 miles an hour at approximately 12:01am 01/04/2020. The time circuits have been flipped on so grab a Hoverboard, bust a fat 360 flip into your Up app and check out some of your favourite merchants logos in all their retro glory. Woolworths, Telstra, KFC, McDonald’s; they've all made the trip back in time for just one day.

We are, of course, very aware of what is happening in the world right now with the COVID-19 pandemic and we debated not going ahead with this. However, we thought some levity may be welcomed - we hope you enjoy this one day special. If you like it, let us know on socials or in-app via "Talk to us" and who knows, Up may get a retro mode one day. And if you don’t like them at least they’re only here for one day.

Merchants... merchants everywhere

We haven’t talked a lot about our merchant system here at Up, however, with it powering the retro logos for today, we thought this was a good chance to share some info.

Firstly, what is a merchant? Put simply, it is a business that you transact with. We've put in a lot of work to try and show you the merchant you transacted - as you'd know them - and not the standard bank ABC CORP TOWNSVI descriptions you have no doubt seen elsewhere. When we can’t do a better job we've asked you, our faithful Upsiders, to help us out and suggest who the merchant is. We're constantly amazed at how you've taken this duty to heart and helped make Up awesome.

Some stats from the Up merchant system:

~275,000 merchants identified by customers (these are specific to individual customers and help us improve merchants for all customers)
~112,000 merchants identified (Up is confident the merchant is correct and all customers see it with the same name, logo, website etc)
93% of all purchases are from an identified merchant
~89,000 merchants with a category
~31,000 merchant notes received from customers

Some fun insights from Up customers:

Nearly 1 million purchases have been made at Up’s most popular merchant!
More customers use Uber than Uber Eats, but more money has been spent on Uber Eats 🤔
More money has been spent on Airbnb than Jetstar & Qantas combined
Big W is twice as popular as Target
Officeworks’ biggest day was Melbourne Cup Day (office sweepstake supplies?)
IGA is more popular than ALDI
Netflix is the most popular streaming service followed closely by Spotify

We are always striving to make Up’s merchant data better. You can help us! Whenever you see an unidentified merchant you can try and identify it from your receipt page - that merchant will be identified for you forever and the Up merchant system may even take your suggestion and use it for all customers. Even things like changing a transaction category can help improve merchant data - once enough of a merchants transactions are being recategorised the same way by customers we are prompted to review the merchants category. The more you use Up and interact with Up’s merchants the better they get.

Some new tricks

We haven’t posted about many of the small improvements we’re making but we thought today would be a good day to share a few (some of you may have already seen these in action).

Potential Card Checks

A potential card check is one of those small charges merchants do to verify your card. Think when you sign up to Netflix they often do a $1.00 transaction on your card that disappears after 10 minutes. Up’s merchant system can now mark those transactions as potential card checks and tell you we think the transaction is temporary (and they also won’t get rounded up which is nice).

Merchant subscriptions

Subscriptions are things like your Netflix or Spotify plan. Up has been automatically detecting these for a while and it means after your first payment is processed, Up will automatically create a regular for you and notify you about future upcoming purchases. That first time Netflix charges you $9.99 was a surprise - all future payments won’t be.

Merchant subscription suggestions

We’ve recently shipped an update to our subscription detection system resulting in a new question Up might ask you: "Did you sign up to a new subscription?"

When will you be asked this? It will come as part of the card check notification and on transaction receipts. For example, if you sign up to Netflix and they do a $1 transaction:

Open the push notification
Pick the subscription you signed up to (or pick "Other" and help Up learn about a new subscription)
Confirm next transaction date and amount
Your regular is now waiting for you in Upcoming

Why is this great? When signing up to new subscriptions there is often a free trial period and it’s easy to forget to cancel if you didn’t like the service. Now Up will notify you the day before the first payment (provided you set the next transaction date correctly) and you can cancel before that first transaction hits!

Final thoughts

All of the above is built with your help - so if you have merchant feedback, suggestions for subscriptions or notice a card check Up didn’t flag correctly please get in touch. We can’t do all this without you.

May your merchants always be identified.

Anthony Langhorne

Tags: Merchants, History, April Fools

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-on-transferwise_.txt ===

Up on TransferWise

How to Up, Updates

We’re so pleased international payments are now available to all Up customers. Up is now one of the cheapest and fastest ways in Australia to send money overseas via TransferWise.

This will be welcome news to all travellers, temporary residents or those with family and friends abroad. Covid aside, the world has become a much smaller place. People travel and work overseas more freely now than at any other time in history. People today need a way to move money across borders quickly and easily and that’s exactly what we’ve achieved through our integration with the TransferWise for Banks API. The first of its kind in Australia.

Story time

When I was living in London, TransferWise was recommended to me by a friend and colleague named Christian. I’ve used it for all international payments since. It made moving money between my Australian and UK bank accounts a breeze. When I travelled with friends in Europe and Asia we were able to pay each other effortlessly. When friends from overseas visited me in Australia they were able to pay me back via TransferWise.

The Up debit card is already a great travel companion. You can withdraw cash from international ATMs and make purchases using the MasterCard® mid-market rate without any markup. Now, with the addition of international payments in Up you can truly roam free, without borders.

Let me walk you through it and explain how it works.

Create or connect an account

After a few taps and agreeing to the terms you’ll have your own TransferWise account that’s set to move money abroad. Up Yeah!

Already have a TransferWise account?

Perfect, by logging into your account and granting Up access we’ll bring across all recipients that you’ve paid in the past. This makes it a matter of seconds to send money to them again from within Up. Simply enter an amount and message for your payment and we’ll do the rest.

Sending money, fast

There are currently 48 currencies available to use. All of them with low fees, the real exchange rate and you’ll see a realistic estimated delivery of when you can expect the payment to land in your recipient’s account.

You can enter an amount in either AUD or the foreign currency.

The time to transfer depends on the currency and payment method used, however, it’s blazing fast compared with traditional banks offerings in Australia using methods like SWIFT. As an example, popular routes like AUD to GBP will usually take mere seconds to arrive.

New routes are being added all the time. COP, TZS and UGX look like they’ll be the next available currencies.

Send us a message via Talk to Us if your currency isn’t there.

Payment details

We’ll ask you a few questions about how you want to transfer the money. The exact details we’ll need depends on the currency and amount.

You can enter details like BSB and account number or use other international methods like SWIFT or IBAN. There’s even e-wallet methods available for some currencies which can make paying someone overseas as low friction as entering the mobile phone number of the recipient.

More payment methods are being added all the time so you can expect it to become even easier and faster in the future.

Recipient details

All international payments out of Australia are required to have the recipient’s name and address so we’ll ask for those too. Rules are rules.

Some currencies and countries will require extra information like a phone number or identity information of the recipient. There are wildly complex requirements and regulations for sending money between countries but TransferWise deals with all the hard stuff to make it easy for you.

A clear history

Up’s payment threads keep a neat history of all past payments you’ve sent, they will now also show the amount in the foreign currency. The receipt will show all details you’ve entered and provide you with a real-time status update of how the payment is progressing on TransferWise’ end too.

Once completed you can download the receipt from TransferWise with details of the transfer should you need it.

We’ll let you know with a push notification when the payment has been sent to your recipient’s account. If there are any problems on the receiving end and your money needs to be refunded to your Up account we'll let you know about that too.

How does it work?

How is it possible for a payment to be sent from your Up account, converted to a foreign currency and to have it arrive in a foreign bank account in seconds?

What’s going on behind the scenes is that two payments are being made. The first is between your Up account and a TransferWise account locally and then a second payment is made between a TransferWise account and your recipient’s account in the foreign country and currency. For example, say you wanted to transfer $1,000 (545.80 GBP) to David Beckham in the UK.

$1,000 would be sent from Up to an Australian TransferWise account via the New Payments Platform in AUD.
£545.80 would be sent from a UK TransferWise account to David via the Faster Payments Service in GBP.

Only local payments are being made and no on-the-fly currency conversion is taking place. Foreign exchange is still required but it can be done in larger sums at strategic times.

Near-instant payment networks at both legs of the journey, combined with real-time events to wire everything together when payments are received, allow for near-instant payments across borders.

Interesting to note, Up has just added its own real-time payment processing capability with the release of the Up API’s Webhooks.

One week in

TransferWise was already a very popular service with our customers.

It’s clear that Up customers love using TranferWise for international payments and now we’ve made it even easier without the need to leave the Up app.

In the first week since launch:

More than 2,000 customers connected their Up accounts with TransferWise.
Payments have been made in 28 currencies, the most popular being INR, GBP, NZD and EUR.
Payments have been made to 36 countries, the most popular being India, United Kingdom, New Zealand and the United States.
Most transfers are sent within 3 mins, the quickest was 19 seconds. The average, including all currencies and destinations was 2h 27m.

Getting these things right takes a lot of time and coordination. The first international payment from Up was made on December 12, 2019 at 4:10pm. The final stretch was ensuring we’d done everything possible to protect individuals before releasing international payments publicly. It’s been a collaborative effort by Bendigo Bank and Ferocia (in Australia) and TransferWise (in Australia, the UK and Singapore) to achieve such a streamlined, easy-to-use, and super-fast outcome and we’re thrilled it’s now in your hands.

Take it for a spin and let us know what you think, we’d love to hear from you.

Mark Brown

Engineer

@markbrown4

Tags: Transferwise, Wise, History

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-turns-2_.txt ===

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Building Up, Spending and Budgeting

Geez, blink and you'll miss it. It's Up’s 2nd Birthday!

We might be cutting the cake on twenty four months, but the end game is still as clear as it was the day we launched. We’re here to help - by giving you tools to understand your spending, and build rock solid savings habits.

We've seen a lot of love in our short time on this planet. Media attention, awards and corporate pats on the back are ace, but the real deal for us is you.

We’re feeling good when you’re feeling good. And when you’re kicking goals, we’re kicking them too.

So rather than putting together an emotional powerpoint preso and giving an absurdly long speech, let’s take a look into what you and all the other Upsiders have been Up to (get it 😏). We’re powering Up (sorry) the ol’ data machine, and reminiscing over all the incredible feedback we’ve seen over our first 2 years.

Even that one time we got a one star review because we ‘don’t look like a real bank.’

Here’s 10 ways we’ve seen you taking back control of your money with Australia’s first mobile-only, digital bank (that’s actually a real bank. Promise).

1. You’ve become savings superstars.

From day one, we were sure you’d want heaps of stress-free ways to stash your cash. Everyone needs to know if there’s enough for the bills and a 5-star Sunday morning brunch, right?

So we shipped multiple free Savers complete with names, business-critical emoji integration and dollar goals to keep you working on your Savings plan. You took them and you ran.

Upsiders currently have an overwhelming 550,000+ Savers, and you've customised more than 80% of them.

Build those goals up, tear them down. Aim for the stars, land in the clouds.

I am legit spinning around on my chair being like I wonder what else I can save for
- Anon | Talk To Us | July 2020
2. You’re the sheriff in town, and you love to Round Up.

Round Ups are a part of who you are now. Every time you spend, you’re also keeping your Savers fed.

Most Upsiders have Round Ups turned on, to fling a few extra cents from every purchase into a Saver. Sounds like a little? It’s a lot. In 2 years you’ve put away a VERY solid $10 million in standard Round Ups. Some Upsiders don’t even realise they’re saving - others have a special account for Round Ups that funds ‘free’ treats on the reg 🍟

That's over 20 million Round Ups and my, haven't you done well!

The round-ups and automatic savings transfers are making me save money without even realising it.
- Eden | Google Play | April 2020
3. You make life easy by playing on Hard Mode.

Your Round Ups roundup doesn't stop there. You liked Round Ups so much we upped stakes with Boosted Round Ups, the ability to bump every Round Up by as much as an extra $10 a pop 😮

43,000 of you have supercharged your Round Ups with a boost, so that even dollar purchases cop a Round Up too. 28,000 take it even further by boosting your Round Up amount from $2 and up - and 3,300 of you actually use that $10 max 😲

We bow to your budgeting superpowers ⚡️

That adds up to a grand total of more than $24 million in all types of Round Ups. Enough to buy every Upsider not one, but two copies of the Lord of the Rings theatrical release box set on DVD, and a medium Whopper meal to go with.

4. When you Pull, you Pull often. Pull-to-Save that is.

Last year we snuck in a super-sneaky savings feature called Pull-to-Save. Give your Up activity screen a mighty downwards pull to send your excess cents flying sky-high and straight into your Round Up Saver. Once you noticed (and it did not take long for you to notice), you were all about it. Pulling in the line at the cafe. Pulling in bars. Seriously, you’re quite the artists and we stand in awe.

Since launching, Upsiders have pulled and saved 1.2 million times, saving more than $900k.

Nice pull.

I no longer get anxiety... It’s even fun to use, like the pull down to quickly chuck a dollar or the cents left over, into your savings… That little bit of detail alone really does a huge amount.
- Anon | Talk To Us | September 2020
5. Ditch the floaties: you’re lapping Saver Pools like a pro.

It's hard to get invested in just a number on a screen.

This year Upsiders chucked on their boardies for an interactive visualisation - all of your saved cash in its fresh, saltwater Saver Pools. You didn’t dip, you dove into your Saver Pools, watching them drain or fill in real time as money moved in and out, and changing your budget for more Saver funtimes.

Upsiders decided that shaking up their phones and sending Saver coins flying ‘round the screen was as satisfying as furiously shaking a bag of $2 coins (highly recommend giving it a try). You’ve been crafting even more unique Saver goals and tracking their progress more closely as your Pools fill to the brim.

Before I go to sleep at night I open my Up bank app to look lovingly at my money in their savers with their cute emojis and when I turn the phone from side to side all the champagne bubbles bounce around to celebrate! Thank you!
- Anon | Talk To Us | October 2020
6. You’re hungry for more Spending Insights.

Insights on your money moves? You can’t get enough - no matter how much we add, you ask for more. (We’re not even mad, that’s amazing).

Right now you’ve got daily and monthly spending data at your fingertips. Each purchase you make is automagically categorised into four high-level spending categories so you can easily see when it’s time to ease up on the ‘Good Life’ and maybe spend some more money on ‘Home’. Or, you know, the other way ‘round. Life is a journey.

From there you go granular. Time to cut down on indoor plants, or limit your HSP runs to once a week? You’re all about using Insights to bank more great habits.

Your Insights are yours and yours alone to help you get on top of your spending - but it would be rude not to share where the biggest chunks of aggregated spending have gone over the last 2 years.

GOOD LIFE: 33.1%
PERSONAL: 25.7%
HOME: 29.3%
TRANSPORT: 11.9%

FUN FACTS:

Your favourite midnight snack is a sneaky Maccas run
Upsiders narrowly prefer Woolies to Coles
Home sweet home: 50,000 Upsiders have made Bunnings runs 🌭
Your favourite 🍩 comes from Donut King, where just over 25,000 purchases have been made over two years: Krispy Kreme trails at 16,000

You’ve even helped us build a database of over 150,000 identified merchants - many with logos for at-a-glance Insights - so your fellow Upsiders can have all the Insights they can eat, too.

This is a budgeting app that just so happens to be a bank.
- Ankko | App store | July 2020
7. You blast Upcoming bills at an A-grade level.

Speaking of Insights, you’re really, really into Upcoming bill prediction. Up learns about your regular charges, and predicts when they'll be charged next so you know how much you really have to spend in the weeks ahead. We didn’t predict (😛) how into it you’d be.

Is there any better feeling than having all the money you need, ready to go? Bill-stress-b-gone: over 50,000 Upsiders use Upcoming to turn their budgeting volume up to 11.

That’s a lot of Netflix, and car regos, and mobile phone contracts, and insurance, and electricity bills, and Afterpay installments. Sorted.

If you’re not yet in that 50,000, maybe this is your day to see all the way to the horizon.

I recently got all my renewal notices for my car insurance, rego, etc., and for once I wasn’t scrambling for money. My Saver is now at 0% but there’s a little bit of fulfilment in that zero 😊
- Facebook group member | September 2020
8. You’re a great mate.

Consider yourself the grape vine, ‘cause everyone is hearing it through you.

Very soon after launching, we realised Upsiders were keen as mustard to get some of their friends in on the action.

So while some of you were totally cool to suit up and pitch a 2 hour preso to your pals, we made it simpler so you could just shoot out a quick referral text and then both of you would score some cash. Heaps easier.

One of our proudest feels is that people think Up is worth sharing: almost half of all Upsiders found us through a mate, and stuck around.

Onya champ, you’re a good mate.

I am constantly attempting to convert friends. I show them the interface, explain round-ups, show them the structure of accounts and the chat… (they) end up making the switch. It's also a win for me because it makes transferring money between friends so much easier. Win.
- Anon | Talk To Us | September 2020
9. And now our mates are your mates!

Our hobby: building sweet collabs, learning from the best, and building solutions that actually work. We went looking for the yin to our yang. The you to our us - but for business.

We started out in mateship: nifty Melbourne tech company Ferocia, plus community focused Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. On our journey we’ve buddied up with Mastercard® for priceless payments; Google for fast, secure hosting; AfterPay so you can see and manage all your costs in one place; and TransferWise to move money wherever it needs to go in this wide and crazy world.

You love them too, which makes us happy because when everyone’s mates you never have those awkward parties where everyone just stands around in little circles.

4,000 of you, for example, have already sent international payments around the globe almost instantly using TransferWise within Up, with the fastest dough landing in Japan in less than 50 seconds (on average). So far the top places to give your AUD a new life overseas have been Nepal, India, New Zealand, England and the USA.

It used to take me 3 minutes to use TransferWise before, but now it takes me less than 30 seconds. Up x TransferWise is one of the few good things that happened this 2020. Kudos!
- Anon | Talk To Us | August 2020
10. You’re always up for a chat, and your banter is spot on.

When we started, 'Support' was Dom, our co-founder churning through queries - one hand on the keyboard and the other tweeting directly with Upsiders. He's an absolute machine, but even the best need a break.

We pretty quickly realised Australia’s first mobile-only digital bank needed a support network that felt real, just like you were messaging a mate for help.

Traditional support software solutions were too tight and constricting so we set out to build the cargo shorts of Support systems. Comfortable, stylish and practical for all activities, all year round.

What we ended up with was a system where our team could be our pure, uncensored selves and could have quick banter with all Upsiders without breaking a sweat. And we can tell you right now, you’re bringing it every day.

Dad jokes, multi-day meme streaks, tales from a massive weekend...Even you messaging to check in on US 😭 We see it all and we're 100% here for it. If you haven't fired up Talk to Us for a question or if you need help with anything at all. Maybe it's time to give it a go. Who knows, you might just find a friend.

I never knew a bank could feel so human?
- Reece Parry | Google Play | September 2020
To the Upside, and Beyond.
Still learning how to fly it properly
- Neri Marks | Google Play | October 2020

(So are we Neri. We’re glad to be learning with you.)

Those of us who work on Up are engineers, designers, and dreamers. And every day we come in to see how we can do more. To fundamentally change a broken system where banks get rewarded for keeping people in the dark.

Two laps around the sun, more than 280,000 🤯 incredible new mates, and over 50,000 savings goals smashed, we’re so proud of all we’ve learned from you, and all the things you’ve achieved.

So what’s next? Let’s find out together.

With 🧡 from the whole Up team.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: History, Upperversary, Pull to Save, Hook up a Mate, Insights, Upcoming, Bills

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

The Evolutionary Design of Up

A deep-dive on the design journey of the Up app. A collaboration between product, design, engineering and our growing base of Upsiders.

Daniel Wearne

Sep 22, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-version-1-4-3-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Updates

Emoji Saver Icons

We thought it was about time to breathe some life into your Savers. You can now set Emojis as your Saver Icons! Nothing like a bit of visual motivation to get you moving towards your saving goals. New bike? 🚲 Floppy disks? 💾 Pet Camel? 🐫 Whatever you’re saving for there is probably an emoji for it.

You can set your custom emoji by tapping edit on your existing saver. We’ve also updated the creation flow of Savers so you can pick the most fitting Emoji from the start 🥫😬🤙🧤

Change Mobile number

New number? No Worries! From now on you won't need to message us to update your digits. You can now update your mobile number in the profile section of the Up tab. Much easier.

To update your number, swipe across to the Up tab and tap on profile.

Grouped Transactions

Hitting the coffee shop back to back in the space of a few hours? More than a few rounds at the pub? We feel you. We’ve given your activity feed a bit of a tidy up and similar transactions will be grouped up into a neat little package.

From today consecutive transactions from the same merchant and transfers to the same Saver will roll up and display a badge showing you how many transactions are in that group. Quickly get a look at your grouped spend or tap the transaction to see your itemised list. Your activity feed isn’t the only place you’ll see these groups. Take a peek into one of your Savers and you’ll notice that consecutive round ups, quick saves and transfers are grouped up.

Not since The Wiggles have you seen a group this tight.

Worth noting: We’ve got the super computer running at top speed to group up your past transactions, might just take a minute.

Configure Card

Keeping your card secure has never been easier. You can now add controls to your card and define how your card is used. Don’t want ATM Cash withdrawals? Disable it. Contactless payments? Turn them off. In-store or online purchases in Australia or overseas? Kill ‘em. Configure card is now in the card menu of the Up tab. You’re the shot caller. Become who you were born to be.

You can enable or disable specific functions of your Up card in the ‘Card’ menu of the Up tab.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.4.3, Emojis, Savers

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

The Tree of Up

We're excited to introduce a new kind of product roadmap. We're calling it The Tree of Up – a technology tree-like view of our product plans for 2019.

Anson Parker

Mar 13, 2019

The Round Ups Round-up

Having now made over 250,000 round ups we take a nerdy dive into the data we've seen, including the most common cents amounts on purchases and our plans for the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 28, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-version-1-4-4-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

Updates

New Statements

Statements will now make a statement in more ways than one. Sent through the ultimate design machine, your Up statements now look and feel better than before. Not a big reader? Get a quick monthly summary on page one. You’ll now see merchant logos and all your favourite icons for transfers and payments. Better margins? More transactions? -- A real treat handed down from the document gods.

Emoji Updates

Unicode version 11 emojis have joined the gang and are now available as Saver icons. From Leg to Llama, all your new favourites are here! You can also long press on an emoji to summon different skin tones. We are now eagerly awaiting version 12.

We’ve gone deep into the emoji rabbit hole 🕳 Learn more about where emojis come from and how you can adopt an emoji in Xavier’s new blog post.

Triangle Loader

We’re bringing the buzz. We’ve tweaked the coordinates and set loading states on a new path. Circle loading animations are out and the colour-spectrum-buzz-triangle 3000 is in. While waiting for Up to load you’ll notice our new triangle animation. A true journey through time and space. Tell your friends.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.4.4, Emojis

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-version-1-4-5-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.4.5 Release Notes

Updates

Transaction Tagging

It’s time to get granular. You can now add custom tags to your purchases and get a new layer of spending insights. Work expenses? Indoor plants? Cheeseburgers? Whatever is in your bag just add a tag. Track your ongoing spending with ‘tag insights’ in your monthly summaries. The power is in your hands.

To add a custom tag to your purchase just tap on ‘Add tags’ when viewing a transaction.

Contact Icons

Contact icons are spreading their wings. You'll now notice new contact icons when sending or receiving money from your mates. A welcome addition to your activity feed.

Order New Card

Keep yourself from being cardless. The next order is on you. You can now tee up your own replacement card if yours should become lost, stolen or damaged. Order your replacement card from, you guessed it, the ‘Card’ menu of the Up tab.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.4.5

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

New statements, new loaders, new emoji and skin tone support.

Up

May 22, 2019

Where Do Emoji Come From?

With our most recent release supporting a crop of exciting new emojis, we ask the question: where do emoji come from anyway?

Xavier Shay

May 22, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-version-1-5-0-release-notes_.txt ===

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Updates

Instant Google Pay

A special treat for our Android pals.

There’s no excuses anymore, hit the ground running. Google Pay instant provisioning is here! Don’t get caught up waiting for your card to arrive, start spending within minutes of signing up.

You’ll now be able to add your card to your Google Wallet directly from the ‘Card’ menu of the ‘Up’ tab. Just follow the prompts and you’re good to go!

For all you newbies out there we’ve built the sign-up flow to include adding your card to Google Pay. Technology rules.

Add, Edit and Delete Upcoming

It’s been called the biggest advancement since Cut, Copy, Paste. You can now Add, Edit and Delete Upcoming payments! Expecting that gym membership every week? Rego due this time next year?

Just tap that more options icon when viewing a transaction to start adding a new regular charge. You can change the expected amount, date and frequency of a charge.

If you’ve cut the cable on your cable and are no longer paying a regular charge you can just delete the upcoming charge directly from your Upcoming feed.

Profile Photos

It’s time to dig up that photo of you wearing a fedora in Mexico from 2009...you know the one.

Up Profile Photos are now here. Add your best snap or upload a selfie directly from the profile menu. To add a photo just tap on ‘Profile’ and then tap on that big ol’ circle that’s just screaming for a photo to be uploaded

Felt cute might delete later? That’s cool, no one will see it just yet but best get ready for when they do. This is the first step to some more work to come!

Accessibility Improvements

We’ve made some accessibility improvements and those of you who use VoiceOver will now have a much better time navigating Savers and using the Talk to Us section.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Release Notes, Up 1.5.0, Upcoming, Google Pay

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

We’re excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

Anson Parker

Jun 12, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-x-rising_.txt ===

UP x RISING

Out and about

Melbourne’s premier art, music, food and culture festival RISING is done and dusted for 2023 after 12 evenings under moonlight in the heart of town. “You can’t fight that shit” said attendee LeAnn Rimes, “The night just gets to you”.

Orbiting Flinders Street Station, the event saw both local & international punters, performers and professionals pour in from all over the globe to take part in a melting pot of expression, artistry and a deep exploration of the sensory nervous system.

For the second year straight, Up x RISING conspired together, birthing the innovative abomination dubbed Night Trade: a space designed for an experience of “curated chaos” amongst a transcendental tour of song, dance, flavour and of course, the downright other - worldly — courtesy of the awe - inspiring art collective Poncili Creación.

At the entrance of Night Trade sat the Up Art Bar, another step in our journey towards transforming traditional notions of money and engagement with our community in meaningful and innovative ways. The Up Art Bar was conceived out of a thirst to be an active participant in a creative space that blended art & commerce — rather than just being another logo on the wall.

The interactive experience spoke directly to our creative DNA, with our underlying vision to unpack some of the magic behind an Up banking transaction. All those in attendance were exposed to neons, smoke machines, a range of digital displays and some high - quality Upsider bar specials. Real - time data was used from purchases made by Upsiders at the bar, visualising where in the world Upsiders were transacting, how much they were saving, alongside how our 40 spending categories were trending throughout the night.

The collaboration between Up and RISING showcased a vision of art & financial empowerment. By forming a collective, we were able to put together a vibrant space that stimulated financial empowerment and creativity to continue to foster purposeful engagement between Upsiders and Up.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Rising, Activations

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

2Up plastic cards: Our take on the make or break.

Since the inception of our digital-only 2Up accounts almost two years ago, our non-existent 2Up Plastic Cards have been in high demand, and today, we're stoked to announce that they're finally here.

Up

May 15, 2023

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-year-2024_.txt ===

UpYear 2024 has landed!

How to Up

Unveil The Cosmic Secrets Of Your 2024

Embark on a journey through your financial cosmos with UpYear—the ultimate wrap-up of your 2024. Like a star chart of your spending and saving habits, UpYear brings clarity to the vast and sometimes puzzling universe of your finances. No need to sift through your data; UpYear offers a self-guided tour right from within the app.

Now in it’s fourth year, UpYear has never been easier to navigate. Explore the spending and saving patterns of your past year to uncover the cosmic secrets that made your 2024 uniquely yours.

Getting Your 2024 UpYear In Review

In 2024 we’ve made it easier than ever to view your UpYear, seamlessly bridging the gap from web browsers to a fully integrated in-app experience. After sourcing the most sacred of cosmic calculations, your 2024 year in review is re-born and served directly to you entirely in-app.

Just make sure you’re running the latest version of the Up app (v3.4.11), then tap the banner at the top of your Activity feed to find your Up Year 2024 ready to view.

Your 2024 UpYear in review will stay in your Activity feed until 23/12/24, ready to revisit. Don’t miss out—after that date, your 2024 story will burn out like a dying star, lost to the abyss forever.

What’s Orbiting In Your UpYear Universe?

UpYear brings your financial universe into focus with a simple breakdown of the money that came in and the money that went out. Take a look at how your savings changed and get a crystal-clear picture of your financial journey throughout 2024.

Discover your top shops, where you spent the most, and see how other Upsiders travelled the globe on Up. It’s the best way to unpack your year and see how it compares to all those who call The Upside home.

The End Of The Beginning

Get a galactic-sized view of how your money moved through 2024, and decide whether it’s time to make some adjustments. If you like what you see—you’re on the right trajectory! If not, fasten your seatbelt and punch in some new coordinates to change your money habits for 2025.

UpYear is all about making your financial journey clearer, but if you’d prefer to give it a miss, the power is yours.

Cheers to another year on The Upside—see you in 2025 for a bigger, brighter adventure!

A Deal That’s Out Of This World...

You didn’t think we’d leave you without a parting gift, did you?

Right now, you and a mate can each get a cool $20 when you give them the gift of Up. Simply tap the ‘Hook Up A Mate’ banner from under the Up tab to send them an invite, and you’ll both score when they sign up.

Get inviting from the ‘Hook Up a Mate’ menu in your Up app today. Offer ends 31st Jan 2025 — after this date, your referral bonus will return to its normal amount.

Learn more about referrals & suss out the T&Cs @ up.com.au/hook_up_a_mate/

How Your 2024 Figures Were Figured
Money In & Money Out

Money In (Up Spending): "Money In" is calculated as the total AUD value of deposits into your Up Spending or 2Up Spending accounts from January 1, 2024, to December 3, 2024. This includes OSKO and Direct Entry payments.

Money Out (Spending and Savers): The total AUD value of successful purchases and payments made from your Up or 2Up Spending and Savers accounts between January 1, 2024, and December 3, 2024.

Income Spent

Percentage of income spent is calculated from the difference between your total “Money In” and “Money Out” of your Up Spending and Savers accounts.

Top Merchants

Your top 4 merchants are ranked based on the total number of purchases made with each merchant between January 1, 2023, and December 3, 2024.

Changes in Savers

Changes in Savers are shown as a positive or negative AUD value, calculated as the difference in your total Savers balance between January 1, 2024, and December 3, 2024.

Round Ups

Total Round Ups: The sum of all Round Up amounts on successful purchases with Round Ups enabled, calculated from January 1, 2023, to December 3, 2024.

Upsider Round Ups: The average amount saved by Upsiders with Round Ups enabled on their Savers accounts, calculated between January 1, 2023, and December 3, 2024.

Upsider Travel

Total Countries Visited: The total number of unique countries visited by Upsiders, calculated from January 1, 2023, to December 3, 2024.

Top Destinations: The top 4 destinations are ranked based on the estimated number of Upsiders who visited each country in 2024, determined by transaction patterns.

Perk‑Up and Happy Hour

Perk-Up: The total number of coffees won is calculated from the number of confirmed winners from eligible Perk-Up entries made by all Upsiders in 2024. This includes successful purchases of $6.50 or less at any merchant in the 'Restaurant & Cafes' spending category.

Happy Hour: The total number of meals and drinks Upsiders received cashback on is calculated from the number of confirmed winners from eligible Happy Hour entries made by all Upsiders in 2024. This includes successful purchases of $10 or more made between 5-7 PM AEST/AEDT on Fridays in the 'Restaurant & Cafes' or 'Pubs & Bars' spending categories.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: UpYear, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

1 Million Upsiders

We've hit 1 million Upsiders! In our latest blog, CPO Anson Parker reflects on the journey, the challenges, and the features you love most. This milestone is a celebration of our community—and a sneak peek at what's next.

Anson Parker

Nov 22, 2024

Up High

Hear from our Head of Product, Anson Parker on why we're building Up High, what it could become, and why you might consider joining Early Access.

Anson Parker

Mar 20, 2024
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_up-year_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

UpYear
Back to Blog

UpYear 2024 has landed!

We’re ready for launch. Blast off on a journey through your 2024 spending & saving habits with UpYear.

Up

Dec 09, 2024

UpYear is Here!

Let’s wrap up your 2023. Get your Spending and Saving insights from the other side.

Up

Dec 19, 2023

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2022

Up

Dec 13, 2022

UpYear is here!

Let’s Wrap Up Your 2021

Up

Dec 14, 2021

UpYear Is Here! Let's Wrap Up Your 2020

Finish the year strong. Starting today take a trip down memory lane and get your personalised spending and saving review of 2020.

Up

Dec 17, 2020

=== blog_upcoming_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Upcoming
Back to Blog

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Ready, but not really ready (eek!) to share money? Ash and Nathan used 2Up to restart their financial lives; this time in co-op mode.

Nathan and Ash

Nov 30, 2021

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019

=== blog_updates_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Updates

Read about new features and improvements as they're pumped into Up. All the big releases in one place.

Back to Blog

1 Million Upsiders

We've hit 1 million Upsiders! In our latest blog, CPO Anson Parker reflects on the journey, the challenges, and the features you love most. This milestone is a celebration of our community—and a sneak peek at what's next.

Anson Parker

Nov 22, 2024

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023

Shipped In The Night: Features You Might Have Missed

If you’ve made a point to be across everything we’ve shipped in 2023, consider yourself a power-user — the world is yours. But for those of you who might’ve missed a release or two, we thought we’d run you through a few of our favourite smaller updates.

Up

May 14, 2023

Custom Spending Insights

Noticed a new taste of rainbow in your Up feed? We’ve tuned up Insights so they can turn at your speed. Engineer María Acuña lays out what’s changing.

Maria

Dec 01, 2022

Up 2.1.7 Release Notes

Set fixed amounts when Pay Splitting

Up

Oct 12, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021

Up 2.0.4 Release Notes

2Up Automated Transfers, Send FJD with International Payments

Up

Jul 12, 2021

How to start saving (from the very beginning) with Up

If saving money doesn’t come naturally to you, you’re not alone. We’re here to start at the beginning. No spreadsheets. No stress. Just Up.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up is Open for Business with Open Banking

Up has been certified for Open Banking. This means you can now safely share your Up data with certified third party apps, like budgeting platforms or loan providers.

Up

Jun 22, 2021

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_updates_pages_2_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Updates

Read about new features and improvements as they're pumped into Up. All the big releases in one place.

Back to Blog

Up 1.18.1 Release notes

iOS Monthly Insights widgets

Up

Mar 01, 2021

Up 1.17.0 Release notes

Faster payments experience with Contacts on Up.

Up

Nov 05, 2020

Up 1.16.0 Release notes

Up Widgets, Eftpos for Apple Pay, Allow Contact Settings.

Up

Oct 26, 2020

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020

Up 1.14.2 Release Notes

1% Pay Splitting Increments, iOS Actionable Covers & Forwards, Up API & Changes to Saver Pools

Up

Aug 03, 2020

Announcing the Up API

Let's Hack On Banking Together! Today we're thrilled to announce the beta release of the Up API.

Anson Parker

Jul 27, 2020

Up 1.14.0 Release Notes

Take a dip into Saver Pools, Saver goal notifications, Updates to our iOS widget & a few Biometric fixes

Up

Jun 28, 2020

Up 1.13.9 Release Notes

Pause & Resume Auto Transfers and Shareable Hook Up a Mate

Up

Jun 15, 2020

Up 1.13.6 Release Notes

Undo Transfers, Attempted Charges & Android Boot Time Improvements

Up

May 28, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_updates_pages_3_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Updates

Read about new features and improvements as they're pumped into Up. All the big releases in one place.

Back to Blog

Up 1.13.5 Release Notes

New 'Pay an Upsider' payment option & Upsider payment replies

Up

May 04, 2020

Up 1.13.2 Release Notes

Transfer between Savers & Upcoming Subscription prompts.

Up

Mar 30, 2020

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020

Up 1.11.0 Release Notes

In App Card Details are here!

Up

Dec 16, 2019

Up 1.9.3 Release Notes

Auto Transfers & Instant Samsung Pay

Up

Nov 07, 2019

Up 1.8.0 Release Notes

Scheduled & Repeating Payments, Salary Identification & New Category Icons

Up

Sep 10, 2019

Up 1.6.5 Release Notes

Pay your bills with BPAY® & Upsider Payments.

Up

Aug 22, 2019

Up 1.6.1 Release Notes

Boosted Round Ups and Even Dollar Round Ups.

Up

Jul 31, 2019

Up 1.5.0 Release Notes

Instant Google Pay provisioning, better control over regulars, photos, and a few accessibility improvements.

Up

Jun 26, 2019

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

We’re excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

Anson Parker

Jun 12, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_updates_pages_4_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Updates

Read about new features and improvements as they're pumped into Up. All the big releases in one place.

Back to Blog

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019

Up 1.4.5 Release Notes

Transaction tagging, contact icons, new card ordering.

Up

Jun 06, 2019

Up 1.4.4 Release Notes

New statements, new loaders, new emoji and skin tone support.

Up

May 22, 2019

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Emoji saver icons, change your mobile number, grouped transactions, and card controls.

Up

May 08, 2019

The Tree of Up

We're excited to introduce a new kind of product roadmap. We're calling it The Tree of Up – a technology tree-like view of our product plans for 2019.

Anson Parker

Mar 13, 2019

The Round Ups Round-up

Having now made over 250,000 round ups we take a nerdy dive into the data we've seen, including the most common cents amounts on purchases and our plans for the future.

Anson Parker

Feb 28, 2019

Top 10 highlights from 2018

Happy New Year! While 2019 has just begun and there are so many awesome things planned for Up this year, I just thought it’d be cool to look back at a few highlights from 2018.

Dom Pym

Jan 16, 2019

=== blog_upnames_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Upnames
Back to Blog

Up 1.12.0 Release Notes

Upnames are here! Select your own unique handle that will be used to send and receive money within Up.

Up

Feb 10, 2020

=== blog_upperversary_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Upperversary
Back to Blog

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020

=== blog_upsider-stores_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Upsider Stores
Back to Blog

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021

=== blog_upsider-stories_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Upsider stories
Back to Blog

Turn Your Resolution into a Revolution

New Year’s resolutions feel good to make, but there’s a smarter way to change. Upsider Anna shares her secret to really saving.

Anna Spargo-Ryan

Jan 04, 2023

=== blog_upsiders_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Upsiders
Back to Blog

Who are our Upsiders?

With Up flying past 30,000 customers within a few months of launch, we thought we'd introduce a few faces who are enjoying life on the Upside.

Up

Feb 13, 2019

=== blog_watch-os_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

watchOS
Back to Blog

Up 2.0.2 Release Notes

Split your pay into 2Up & 2Up Activity, Card Controls & Trackers on watchOS

Up

Jun 15, 2021

=== blog_webhooks_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Webhooks
Back to Blog

Making it rain!

Combining garden automation and the Up API to raise money for a cause

Paul Tagell

Aug 26, 2020

=== blog_welcome-pack_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Welcome Pack
Back to Blog

Five ways Up can help you spend wisely

With the economic uncertainty as a result of COVID-19, spending wisely has become more important than ever.

Up

Mar 31, 2020

Deliver bank card; melt faces

Cranking up the heat on our welcome pack

Pete Johnson

Mar 06, 2020

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019

=== blog_where-do-emoji-come-from_.txt ===

Where Do Emoji Come From?

Building Up

What are emoji?

Well first, what are letters? A, Z, É: they mean nothing special to a computer. Computers store text as a long list of numbers. Each number represents a particular character. Historically it was somewhat of a hard problem getting everyone to agree on which numbers should represent which characters, but these days everyone has pretty much agreed to let a non-profit group called The Unicode Consortium call the shots.

When a computer anywhere in the world today sees 65 in its list of numbers, it will interpret and display it as an A. It doesn't always make sense -- the character 1 is represented by the number 49 🙃 -- but it doesn't matter as long as we all agree. There are standardized number-to-character mappings for nearly 140,000 distinct characters!

From that set, around 3000 represent emoji characters. 🆒

Can I make an emoji?

Unlike most other characters which are derived from traditional written scripts, emoji are "digital first". As such, there is a different process for adding them to the official list.

Anyone can propose a new emoji, but it isn't easy to be accepted! There is a "budget" of around 60 new emoji per year that was adopted to allow vendors sufficient time to incorporate and make available the new images needed. Each major player (Apple iOS, Google Android, etc...) has it's own emoji "font" that they need to modify in order to include the new icons.

The submission bar is high, requiring a justification of uniqueness, high expected usage, wide applicability and more. The successful (and now available in Up!) llama proposal 🦙 runs to nine pages and includes such delightful factoids as:

"the combined hashtagged posts on Instagram for llama and alpaca are comparable to that of camels (91%)"

It also notes that although there are four major species within the lamini tribe (llama, alpaca, vicuña, guanaco), and despite camels already having distinct emojis for single 🐪 and double humps 🐫 (not bitter at all...), they are only requesting a single new character. So gracious!

What if I really like an emoji?

The Unicode Consortium is a non-profit, but that doesn't mean they don't need money. You can always donate out of the goodness of your heart, but why do that when you can adopt an emoji!? Three tiers of adoption are available, and for the top gold-tier 🏅 level of $5,000 you get sole sponsorship of that character. Most of the new ones are still up for grabs. Time to get saving!

When can I use new emoji?

Once a new emoji version is released, phone vendors typically take about six months to support it with a new release. Emoji V12 was announced on February 5 of this year (get hype for your sloth emoji), but isn't yet supported by any phone or browser.

If you are on an older operating system, you won't be able to see the new emojis yet. While we make some attempt to hide emoji we know your phone can't display, it's a complicated business so for the most part you'll just see blanks or question marks. All the more reason to upgrade!

Technical details

Alright, time for some nerd stuff.

When the consortium releases a new emoji version, they publish a number of plain text specification files. The main one for our purposes is emoji-test.txt, which contains a full list of the emoji in categorized order. Here are the first few lines:

# group: Smileys & People

# subgroup: face-positive
1F600 ; fully-qualified # 😀 grinning face
1F601 ; fully-qualified # 😁 beaming face with smiling eyes
1F602 ; fully-qualified # 😂 face with tears of joy


These groups and subgroups define the order that emoji are shown on your keyboard, or in Up. That funny looking code on the left 1F600 represents the unique number -- encoded as hex because that's how we roll -- that now represents a particular emoji. (I don't know what fully-qualified means either.)

This data is sufficient for us to display our picker, but doesn't contain keywords that could be used to power search. When searching for "awesome", how do we decide to show 👍 and 🌟? The Unicode Consortium has nothing to say on this matter. For that, we turn to a community effort emojilib. This is a big database where wonderful humans like yourself have contributed keywords for various emoji.

We use a combination of the emoji-data and emoji-mart-native libraries to pull in all these data sources and combine them into a single large machine readable file, that we then ship with our application.

This process is why we initially shipped with only emoji V10 support: those libraries in the middle hadn't updated their data for V11 yet. Over the last week we went in and contributed patches to help get them updated, culminating in this release with all the 🦛, 🥭 and 🥮 you can save for.

Xavier Shay

Engineer

@xshay

Tags: Emojis, Technology, Development, Innovation

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Building Saver Icons

New in our most recent release is the ability to choose a custom emoji icon for your savers. Learn some of the technical challenges surmounted while building it.

Xavier Shay

May 13, 2019

Up 1.4.3 Release Notes

Emoji saver icons, change your mobile number, grouped transactions, and card controls.

Up

May 08, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_who-are-our-upsiders_.txt ===

Who are our Upsiders?

How to Up

We talked with some of our first wave of Upsiders to get a picture of who they are, what they liked about Up, and what they'd like to see from us in the future.

Caitlin
What do you do when you’re living not banking?

Being owned by my two Finnish Lapphund dogs including a new 9 week old puppy, running, reading, or learning more about digital marketing.

How did you hear about Up?

Up popped up on my Twitter feed and I’m always curious to try new things so I clicked and ... here we are!

What do you like most about using Up?

It’s so simple. I can see what the transactions are in detail, rather than trying to remember what I spent money on a month ago. I can transfer and send money quickly and easily. And it’s kinda fun!

What would you like to see on Up in the future?

I’d love to be able to easily portion my money for different things and track what’s left e.g. budgeting within the app, but real time with my accounts.

Why would you recommend it to other people?

It’s easy, it makes banking less painful and less of a hassle, and the card gets you loads of compliments when you use it!

Brian
What do you do when you’re living not banking?

Year 12 student, Gong Cha addict and LOOΠΔ stanner.

How did you hear about Up?

I heard about Up through Whirlpool and saw it briefly on the App Store, which prompted me to try the bank out. It is a decision that I will never regret.

What do you like most about using Up?

Apple Pay support, having everyone in awe at the awesome card and the awesome app which integrates a pocketbook-like app straight into my banking.

What would you like to see on Up in the future?

BPay support, SCT support, it might be impossible but also WeChat Pay support and TransferWise support. Please get rid of that International ATM fee as well <3.

Why would you recommend Up to other people?

I have recommended Up to a number of people and will continue to do so because of the better savings rates, better app, better banking infrastructure, better support and implementing features faster than I've ever seen from traditional banks. The signup process is also seamless. As a Melbournian, I am proud of a small team located in Melbourne for envisioning, starting and delivering the bank that people need right into our hands. I'll never-ever switch back to the Big 4 as one of my main banking platforms.

Mereki
What do you do when you’re living not banking?

I am a fintech enthusiast, payments geek, soccer coach and Melbourne Demons believer.

How did you hear about Up?

I can’t remember – I think on Twitter.  Once I had heard about it, I signed up straight away and haven’t looked back!

What do you like most about using Up?

I love the simplicity!  The initial set up blew me away – that I could start transacting within minutes. The PayID registration was the simplest that I have seen, and I love that Up also generate a PayID that I can use. I love the conversational payments – it is how payments on a mobile app should work.

I have set up my kids to be able use my card on their phones on Apple Pay, and it gives me comfort that I know that I can get them money instantaneously at any time of the day to help them out in an emergency.  As their first experience of a banking product, they think that mobile, cardless, real time payments is the norm! (plus they like the stickers!)

What would you like to see on Up in the future?

I would love to see Up introduce some options for kids under 15.  It would be great for my kids to have their own accounts and to activate the saver feature to teach them about saving (and also so they can stop spending my money on my account!).   I would like to see some mortgage products – this is the thing that is preventing me from moving all my accounts to Up as I still need to reduce my interest payments with my mortgage offset account at my current bank.   I also would love to see how Up could disrupt Small Business Banking – especially for smaller businesses and sole traders who are a forgotten segment by the big banks.

Why would you recommend it to other people?

I recommend Up because they are genuinely focused on customers and it is a bank that is authentic and humble.  I like that they have the security of being backed by a large bank which makes me feel safer about my money.  Most of all I recommend them because I want people to see just how simple, seamless and fun banking can be!

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: Upsiders

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Afterpaying with Up

Spending wisely requires being more connected to your past purchases than many of us are today. It also requires a better understanding of your future spending commitments. Armed with knowledge of the past and future you are able to make better informed — wiser — spending decisions.

Anson Parker

Feb 04, 2019

Designing a Super Powered Welcome Experience

For a branchless digital bank, the tangible moments you have with your customers are few and far between. We relished the opportunity to design both our debit card and its welcome pack from scratch.

Daniel Wearne

Jan 24, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_why-up-is-now-a-two-balance-app_.txt ===

Why Up is Now a Two Balance App

How to Up, Spending and Budgeting

With the introduction of Pay Day, Up is now an app of two balances. Unlike more traditional banking apps that display both a Current and Available balance, we've previously only displayed a single representation.

So with this change, we thought we'd dive in and provide a little more context around why most banks show two balance amounts, what the difference between them is, and why we’re now introducing a second balance into Up.

Available vs Current

So what exactly determines an Available balance vs a Current balance?

Well, your Available balance is the actual amount of money in your account you have access to right now. It’s the maximum amount you could spend on purchases or withdraw from an ATM. It’s an amount that can sometimes be lower than your Current balance, which is the entire sum of money in your account at that time. So when are they different?

One common cause is depositing a cheque at a branch. When you deposit a cheque you generally don’t get access to that amount immediately — the bank first needs to determine whether the piece of paper you just handed them is legit and backed by an account holding the specified amount. This could take several days. What you would see immediately is an increase in your Current balance (but not your Available one) reflecting the deposited amount. Your Available balance would not include the amount of the cheque until it had been “cleared”. Only then would your Available balance increase to match your Current balance.

While that still goes on, the more common cause is making a purchase using a debit or credit card. When you pay for your morning coffee the cost will be immediately subtracted from your available balance. Your current balance, however, remains unchanged until a day or two later when the transaction “settles” — again, a several-day process involving a series of banking processes we won’t delve into in this article.

With other banks you may have noticed that card purchases sometimes appear a couple of days after the actual event (this date is generally called the settlement date). During the time between when you tapped and the settlement date the money was actually still sitting in your account, it just wasn’t available to be spent. Until settlement, your Current balance wouldn’t yet have included that charge, just your Available one.

Ultimately this is all a bit too much information for most of us — that money may as well have left your account the moment you tapped your card. It’s largely for that reason we view the Current balance as less relevant than the Available balance — and in the interests of simplicity and understanding we don’t bother displaying it in Up.

Introducing: Spendable Balance

So if the difference between Available and Current balances is really just a bit of financial guff (with Available being the far more relevant figure) why have we gone and thrown another balance into the mix?

Well, the way we see it, balances are actually missing a really useful piece of context, and that is the dimension of time. To illustrate this let’s look at two hypothetical Upsiders, Gavin and Chelsea. Gavin opens his app and sees an Available balance of $400 while Chelsea checks in and sees she has an Available balance of $650. The question is, who should be paying for the next round of drinks?

While at first glance Chelsea might seem better off, it turns out that tomorrow her car repayment of $450 is due and on top of that she still has a week to get through before her next pay day. Gavin, on the other hand, has just $100 worth of bills to take care of before he gets paid the day after tomorrow.

The actual money Chelsea has to spend is really only $200 (which has to last her a week) while Gavin has $300 that only needs to last him a couple of days.

It was in finding a way to clearly show this true financial position that we developed Spendable balance. It’s a balance that takes into account when you next get paid and what bills and other commitments you need to take care of before then. This amount is summed up and subtracted from your Available balance to show the actual amount you can safely spend without dipping into money that’s already committed.

Spendable Balance also considers all of your upcoming bills — and we really do mean all of them. Enabling Spendable Balance sets aside cash each pay cycle for upcoming bills, but now we’ll start storing away a bit extra to take of those bigger bills you have waiting for you in a few months time.

Each pay cycle we’ll reserve a little more until the due date arrives and when the time comes, you’ll smash it out of the park.

We think the insight Spendable balance provides justifies the addition for a second balance — of course any time you want to view your Available balance instead you can switch back to it easily and instantly.

We’re excited to provide you with this financial super power — an at-a-glance view of the money you can safely spend — and equally as excited to have done it through reimagining a part of banking — the balance—that has been static for decades. Doing so was only possible because of the hard work we’d previously put in building our merchant ID and charge prediction platforms. This complexity under the hood results in an elegant, powerful yet simple feature — there’s almost no input required from Upsiders to unlock this understanding.

To find out even more about this feature, you can read our post discussing it here.

Anson Parker

Head of Product

@anson

Tags: Pay Day, Spendable Balance

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

The Envelope Queen: Setting Up Cashless Cash Envelopes

Love packets of cash... but not actual cash? Here’s how one Upsider digitised ‘envelope stuffing’ with Up.

Emma Nugent

Sep 27, 2021

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_wise_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Wise
Back to Blog

Easy Money with Up and Wise

Exploring the Wise-Up transfer experience and how easy it would have been for my semester exchange in Japan.

Rukmal De Silva

Oct 29, 2021

Up on TransferWise

International Payments are now available to all Up customers via TransferWise. Let me take you on the grand tour.

Mark Brown

Aug 19, 2020

Up 1.15.0 Release notes

International Payments powered by TransferWise, Monthly Insights updates & Up API Changelog

Up

Aug 09, 2020

TransferWise integrates with Up

First of its kind collaboration in Asia-Pacific soon to offer Upsiders the best way to move money overseas.

Up

Oct 15, 2019

=== blog_wish-farming-with-up_.txt ===

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

How to Up, Upsider Stories, Saving, Spending and Budgeting

Any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Hi, my name is Anne and I’m a wish farmer.

When I was a kid I spent hours deciding what to spend my money on. I used to beg Mum and Dad for those tins from the Reject Shop, the ones with dollar bills printed on that are nearly impossible to open without slicing an artery. I loved that delicious tension as they got heavier and heavier…

Should I put my pocket money in this week, or splurge it on lollies?

Should I crack it now for a GigaPet? Or wait a bit longer for an actual Tamagotchi?

Grown-up money might be bigger and live in a bank account, but there’s still a lot of the same decisions to be made. Now, or later? This wish, or that one?

For example: I’m trying to save up a home deposit. That’s a super big goal! But I also really want a cargo bike. New books are my favourite kind of self-care, and I also want one of those fancy French enamel pots so that on Spag Bol night I can feel like I’m whipping up a five course meal in a fancy French kitchen...

That’s a lot of stuff, and I’m just getting started.

Before I joined Up, I treated all my ‘savings’ as one big bucket — just like one big pocket money tin. That meant I either spent what felt like ‘home deposit money’ on books, and felt bad about it... or, didn’t buy anything, and felt deprived.

Both of these scenarios sucked 👎

But I found a new way.

Up + Wish Farming = Serenity.

‘Wish farming’ with Savers is a way of giving all my dreams a place to live and grow. I brainstorm everything my heart desires; choose a small number of wishes to nurture now; and then give those wishes all of my savings firepower till I can get them.

I found this idea through the smarty-pantses who make the You Need A Budget software (shout out to my fellow budgeting nerds), and it’s really easy to organise inside Up.

A Saver for Every Wish
Map Out And Nail Your Money Goals With Savers
Learn more about Savers

At the heart of Up are Savers: heaps of free homes for your money, so you know what’s meant for one thing and what’s set aside for another.

Whenever I want something new, I make a Saver for it.

But not just a generic Saver: every wish gets love and care with a name, a priced-out goal amount, and a carefully chosen emoji. Up even gives you neat Saver swimming pools so you can lie in bed and watch your emojis swimming ever closer to your goal. Not that I’ve ever done that. Cough.

At this stage, I don’t worry too much about whether a goal is something that’s truly a priority — I just set up a Saver. The heart wants what the heart wants, and sometimes the heart wants a new puppy. I don’t talk to my heart about what the landlord would say. I just make a Saver.

Time to Choose

Next, I prioritise. While I can love every wish, I definitely don’t have the financial firepower to feed them all at once. Sorry, enamel pot dream: I want the bike more, and I want to save fast enough for it that I stay motivated.

I like to pick out about three goals at a time. Maybe a really big one (the someday home!), a medium sized one that will take a while, but is still achievable (bike adventures!) and a littler one (a pile of dollarydoos that are all mine for books).

I press and hold on the three Savers I’ve picked to move them to the top of the pile.

Those other wishes? They still matter. I still love them. They’ll be there when I’m ready.

Sunlight, water, and time
Breeze Between Pay Days
Learn how Pay Day works

Just like a real farm, a wish farm needs TLC. These little wishes need to be fed with cash.

The easiest way to fill Savers is just to pop in spare money in when you have it. If that’s what you like to do, no shade.

But the magic of Up is that it’s full of little techno tricks I can use to trick my brain into saving faster, and with less pain. It’s a psychological game that Up and I play against my own spending, and the only winner is me.

For example:

🏡 A home deposit is a commitment: big money and big time. So every pay day, money goes automatically into that Saver before I even realise I have it. There’s not even time to feel deprived.

🚲 My cargo bike wish isn’t urgent but it is exxy, so I’ve chosen to move any extra money I get into that Saver. If I get birthday money or a tax return? If I sell something I don’t need? Forward that money in to the Saver. If I have a Spendable balance left on Pay Day, in it goes too.

📚 And last but not least, any extra money Up finds through Round Ups fill a ‘quality time in bookshops’ Saver.

One of the funny things about human brains is that they can adapt to a huge range of circumstances. Making my money less available (within reason) forces me to adapt to having a bit less day to day.

I find I splurge less on stuff that just seems cool for a moment, and get what I really want long term.

Get and Reset

Happy day! The ‘books’ saver has hit its goal of $100, the shop is open: I’ll see you in about three hours.

It’s time to empty my Saver totally guilt free, because a) I know the money is available and b) I know — because I’ve saved for ages and had time to think — that I definitely want to use this money for books.

Later, after I’ve enjoyed a very solid read, I’ll have a play and see which goal will replace Books. Maybe this is the month I’m going to go all out on a cheese delivery?

An interesting side benefit I didn’t expect from saving this way, is that I’ve discovered the wisdom of waiting before buying. Heaps of times, by the time a ‘must have’ goal has made it to the top of my list, either I honestly don’t want it so much any more, or I’ve found a cheap or free way of getting it. In the week it took me to write this blog post, I found two books I wanted at the library, and Marketplace delivered with a $5 cast iron pan that just needed a bit of TLC!

Oh — and waste not want not. Savers can be edited with new names, emojis and goals, so they’re fully recyclable.

A few more of my favourite Up features

But wait, there’s more! There are heaps of ways to find a few extra bucks behind the digital couch.

Trackers

Trackers on my phone let me know how much is left in my ‘food shopping’ and ‘entertainment’ budgets. It’s now a bit of a game to use slightly less than my set Tracker amount… and Forward the extra into my 🚲 Saver. Buying cheaper brands or going for a toastie instead of Uber Eats actually feels pretty great when I can fling a few dollars towards my dream 💸

Boosted Round Ups

Did someone say challenge? When I first used Up, I turned on basic Round Ups and quickly realised I never missed the money. I’ve gradually turned Round Up Boosts up to $3 and I’m still totally OK, but saving faster. I know of Upsiders who boost to $10. That’s not for me, but serious respect.

Pay Day

Up keeps track of what bills are coming up before I get paid again, and tells me what’s ‘Spendable’ before pay day rolls around again. If I end up with a few dollars left the night before pay day, you best believe I’m moving them into my wish farm.

How do you use Up?

I’d love to make this post part of a series, about all the ways people customise Up to fit their own personal money style. If you’ve got a story to tell, email me at anne@up.com.au and we can have a chat!

Anne Shea

Content, Community & Communications

@annie_shea

Tags: Wish Farming, Savings Goals, Round Ups, Pay Splitting, Savers

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Starting out right with 2Up

Our guide to levelling up your new life together.

Up

Jul 29, 2021

Pay Day & Spendable Balance

Pay Day is a great day, but what if the day before could be great to? Breeze between pays with our new feature.

Anson Parker

Jul 26, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_wish-farming_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Wish Farming
Back to Blog

Wish Farming: How To Save Money with Up

Want more things than your dollars can buy? Try this story on for size.

Anne Shea

Aug 31, 2021

=== blog_wwdc-2019_.txt ===

Up at WWDC 2019

Building Up

First week of June we had the pleasure of representing Up at Apple’s Worldwide Developer Conference in San Jose.

Each year it's super exciting, with so many announcements from the headline Keynote & State of the Union talks, through to the framework specific sessions throughout the week. It's also a big week of networking and side events such as the ATP, Talk Show live podcast shows and of course the Bash.

This year was no different, Apple did an amazing job and you could see they've been very busy over the last year. 👏

The conference was held at the San Jose McEnery Convention Center, and after years of lining up for the keynote in the cold San Francisco mornings, the San Jose summer was a welcome change - most days above 30C! Win!

Was great to meet many fellow Australian developers who arrived in town just before the conference started - many existing Up customers that had awesome feedback for us, feature requests or were keen to just chat all things Apple and tech.

We also made a limited edition WWDC 2019 Up T-Shirt for the event which proved quite popular, running out of many sizes on the first day (let us know if you'd still like one as we have a few left over and perhaps there might be another sneaky special run 😀).

From the announcements there's still lots to decompress and research - Monday's Keynote and State of the Union talks always feel like making a huge database index in your brain of things to look into over the coming week and beyond.

3 announcements in particular stand out from the keynote:

Dark mode, iOS definitely looks great in all dark themed colours after the adoption of macOS dark mode last year.

Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR reveal, what a machine, looks beautiful and insanely powerful, the crowd was going wild during its introduction. It's certainly not a machine for everyone but Apple have certainly claimed the high ground for top end hardware if you need it, amazing.

SwiftUI, just one slide during the keynote after the introduction of Catalyst, but dominated the sessions during the week and looks great for having a common language and UI paradigm across all of Apple's platforms. With many on the Up team having React experience the concepts of state driven re-renders, live previews and small reusable components resonates really well.

There were so many other new features and enhancements to the Apple ecosystem such as iPadOS (great to see it getting its own seat alongside iOS), Sign in with Apple, parameterised/conversational Siri Shortcuts, standalone watchOS apps, Xcode and tooling updates (Catalyst, Swift Package manager, editor minimap, thermal and network link conditioner integration) and more.

We're excited and looking forward to exploring and experimenting with all the new announcements and developer enhancements in the future.

PS. For the coffee lovers, after Social Policy closed just a few months ago, Voltaire was the most popular & convenient, but for me Academic and Chromatic were the best, and a nice walk or scoot in the sun from the venue. Also noticed that Flat Whites were on the menu in most places! :)

Marcus Crafter

Engineer

@crafterm

Tags: WWDC, Apple, Technology, Development, Innovation

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

The Future of Banking is Looking Up

We’re excited to announce that over 100,000 customers have joined Up since we launched just over 8 months ago in October 2018. This places Up in the company of the fastest growing digital banks in the world.

Anson Parker

Jun 12, 2019

Up Apple Watch App

A tour of our new Up App for Apple Watch

Marcus Crafter

Jun 06, 2019
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_wwdc_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

WWDC
Back to Blog

Up at WWDC 2019

WWDC 2019 is done and dusted. Our iOS wizard, Crafter spent a week in sunny California checking it out!

Marcus Crafter

Jun 24, 2019

=== blog_your-upyear-2020_.txt ===

UpYear Is Here! Let's Wrap Up Your 2020

How to Up

See how you spent & saved in 2020

Just before we get on with chucking 2020 in the bin, we're very excited to be breaking out the nice wrapping paper and gifting Upsiders 'UpYear' - one last look back at the year that was.

UpYear is your very own personalised annual report - the easiest and most un-banking way to take a look back at your money data for this year. You can use it to get a better understanding of your money, and put yourself in a good position to upgrade your financial health in 2021.

Think of it like Spotify Wrapped, but for your money. We won't tell you how many times you listened to the "lo-fi-beats-to-study-and-relax-to" playlist but you will get some key stats on your 2020 money moves.

Getting your 2020 UpYear in Review

Starting today, we’re sending out a special notification to Upsiders giving you access to your personalised 2020 UpYear. You’ll also notice a new kind of activity item in your app at the time your review is generated - tap on it at any time to get back to your UpYear.

Make sure you’re running the latest version of the Up app (1.17.2) and have made at least 12 successful purchases with your Up account in 2020 to score a report.

If you’re an Upsider, your UpYear will arrive at some point from today. Check out your activity feed to find it.

Importantly, no two UpYears are the same. This is a special report for your eyes only! We’ve purposely kept your financial bits private and only you can access your review.

Your review will hang around in your browser for a bit before you’ll need to head back into your app to authenticate and relive your 2020 UpYear once more.

Long press on your stats to grab a sharable image of your UpYear stats. Save to your device and fill your social feeds if you’re feeling a financial flex, but otherwise this one can just stay between us. If you do choose to share, use #UpYear2020 - we’d love to celebrate together.

What’s in the box?

We’ve reached high into the data clouds and handpicked a few key figures from your year. Because numbers don’t always tell the whole story (and, let’s face it, can be a bit boring), we’ve done our best to make UpYear reports nice to look at.

For 2020, we’ve focused on the basics. On the spending side, you’ll get a wrap up of your spending insights as well as a quick peek into some of the places you frequented most over 2020.

On the flip side, for savings, we’ll help you understand which months you saved most in...

...as well as providing a quick snapshot into whether or not Round Ups played a role in your savings journey.

If you’re not yet an Upsider, join us! Use the code JOINUP5 (conditions) when you sign up (or even better, get a mate to use Hook Up a Mate to invite you) and we’ll start you out with a free fiver. You could be seeing your very own UpYear in lights in 2021.

To all our amazing Upsiders: we really hope you get something out of UpYear 2020. If you liked it or even if you didn’t - we’d like to know. Just hit Talk To Us in your app.

If UpYear made you think you’d like to do things a bit differently in 2021, consider reading this post about how 12 very different Upsiders use Up to beat money stress.

Until 2021. #UpYear!

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: UpYear, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Up 1.17.0 Release notes

Faster payments experience with Contacts on Up.

Up

Nov 05, 2020

Up turns 2! But we're turning up for you.

Less stress. Good times. And more to come.

Up

Oct 30, 2020
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_your-upyear-2021_.txt ===

UpYear is here!
Let’s Wrap Up Your 2021

How to Up

> Your 2021 Calculations are Complete

The end of the never ending year is here.

2021 felt a bit like we all just managed to keep our motherboards running at optimal temperature without crashing. Now the finish line is in sight. We're decompressing, defragging our minds and wrapping up your money movements for this year.

UpYear is your very own personalised annual report — the easiest way to take a look back at how you spent and saved for this year. Use it to get a better understanding of your money, and put yourself in a good position to upgrade your financial health in 2022.

> Getting Your 2021 UpYear in Review

Running your 2021 UpYear in review is easy. Start by booting your app as normal. We've pre-installed your UpYear review to reveal itself as an item in your activity feed.

Starting today, we’re sending out a special notification direct to your device letting you know your personalised UpYear calculations are complete and ready to view. Tap the 2021 UpYear activity item at any time to relive the magic of your annual report over and over.

Make sure you’re running the latest version of the Up app (2.2.5) and have made at least 1 successful purchase with your Up account in 2021 to score a report.

If you’re an Upsider, your UpYear will arrive at some point from today. Keep an eye on your activity feed to find it.

No two UpYears are the same. This is a special report for your eyes only! We’ve purposely kept your financial bits private and only you can access your review.

Your review will hang around in your browser for a bit before you’ll need to head back into your app to authenticate and relive your 2021 UpYear once more.

What's in the 2021 file?

This year we’re bringing back the favourites you know and a few you don’t.

Take a dive into the depths of your Spending and Savings stats from 2021. Using the absolute latest in graph generating technology we’re loading up an easy way to see the top places you shopped, total money in/out, your yearly spending insights and much more.

Press for Player 2

This year our disks have been filled with more data than ever before.

If this year you made a special kind of financial connection you’ll find a new space in your UpYear just for you and your Player 2. We’ve added an additional layer to your UpYear to show your 2Up totals. When browsing any sections of your report, toggle the button at the top of your screen to change from single to double vision!

If your figures are yellow, you’re viewing data from your 2Up spending and savings accounts.

The Round Ups from tomorrow, today.

Making a second run at UpYear glory, your Round Ups ‘round up’ makes a triumphant return to the data dashboard. See exactly how many dollars and cents you saved just by having Round Ups or Boosted Round Ups enabled this year.

As a part of the 2021 UpYear_Future_Vision v2.0 upgrade we’ll now show you how much you COULD have saved if you enabled a boost, or increased your current boost amount by just $1.

A look into a future you can create for yourself starting in 2022.

New Hardware You Can Count On.

Your 2021 UpYear in review has a plus side. We’ve installed not one but two new calculators to deliver you more annual data. It all adds up.

Perk-Culator

The Perk-Culator estimates the number of singular coffees you may have purchased over the whole year. Using the criteria of Perk Up, we’ve run the numbers for the number of purchases $6 and under made at shops in the ‘Restaurants & Cafe’ spending category.

Whilst all estimated beverages may not be caffeinated, the numbers they generated are guaranteed to be interesting.

Carb-Culator

Your 2021 UpYear comes complete with our very first Carbon Emissions calculator. Running as just a rough approximation, the Carb-Calculator analyses your spending categories,amount of card purchases and charges over the year and estimates the total tonnes of C02 emissions generated from your spending.

Please note this number should be viewed as indicative only. It does not reflect specific businesses or choices you may have made to reduce your footprint (e.g. buying green power, or spending with carbon neutral/negative businesses).

Thanks to every Upsider who came along with us for the ride this year. We hope your 2021 UpYear in Review is everything you thought it would be, and if it’s not that’s totally okay! 2022 is already shaping up to be everything you dreamed.

If UpYear made you think you’d like to do things a bit differently in 2022 have a read of some stories from other Upsiders using Up to get on the path to feeling good about money.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: UpYear, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

The Co-op Champions: When Joint Accounts are a Challenge

Ready, but not really ready (eek!) to share money? Ash and Nathan used 2Up to restart their financial lives; this time in co-op mode.

Nathan and Ash

Nov 30, 2021

The Ethical Engineer

Meet a tech. engineer who’s matching the Up API, with data on ethical clothing. A match made in fashion heaven.

Matthew Grey

Nov 03, 2021
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_your-upyear-2022_.txt ===

UpYear is here!

How to Up

The Mysteries of Your 2022 Revealed.

We’ve peeled back the curtain of time so you can relive your biggest money moments of 2022.

It’s been 12 long months of steady orbiting in 2022 but the planets have aligned and the clouds of dark energy have parted. The secrets of your spending and saving are beginning to manifest.

We’ve enlisted the help of beings with advanced knowledge of astronomical bodies, mathematics, and precision engineering tools to unlock the mysteries of your financial past and wrap up your 2022 on Up. UpYear 2022 is here.

UpYear is your very own personalised annual report — the easiest way to take a look back at how you spent and saved for this year. Use these cosmic calculations to get a better understanding of your money, and put yourself in a good position to upgrade your financial future in 2023.

Getting your 2022 UpYear in Review

Forget strange and unusual predictions, receiving your 2022 UpYear in review is easy. Simply summon your Up app on your device as you normally would – we’ve pre-installed your UpYear review to reveal itself as an item directly in your activity feed.

Today marks the start of our digital divination, we’re sending out a special notification direct to your device letting you know your collection of personalised UpYear calculations are complete and ready to view.

Gaze into the crystal ball and take a look into the past by tapping the 2022 UpYear activity item any time. Infinitely and instantly relive the magic of your annual report.

Make sure you’re running the latest version of the Up app (2.4.8) and have made at least 1 successful purchase in 2022 to score a report.

If you’re an Upsider, your UpYear will arrive at some point from today. Keep an eye on your activity feed to find it.

Sacred & Secure

Viewing your UpYear is a path you must walk alone and your calculations are unique to you. This is a special report on your financial journey through 2022 so we’ve purposely kept your financial data private and only you can access your review.

Once conjured, an UpYear report will mediate in your browser for a short period of time before you’ll need to head back to your app once more to authenticate and relive UpYear 2022.

What Secrets will I unlock?

UpYear is a guide to money, meditation and manifestation. See exactly where your spending and saving stands at the end of 2022 and make the choice to continue on your path, or write a new chapter.

With a touch of divine digital intervention we've bent the rules of space and time to take you on a deep dive through all your spending stats from 2022. Every purchase and payment has been carefully calculated to build a picture of your total spend for 2022, brick by brick.

Look to the skies for a sign from the stars. Prepare for a close encounter with an overview of your spending categories and a breakdown of where you spent the most $$$ in 2022.

Walk the great halls of the transaction temples to discover your most frequented shops and spots over the last 12 months.

Plunge into the healing waters of the ancient springs and soak your weary bones. Look closely into the clear saver pool to have your 2022 total Savings story revealed.

Shift your view to 2

Whether you forged your financial alliance in 2022 or kept the flame burning from Day 1 you’ll find a new space in your UpYear just for you and your Player 2. We’ve added an additional layer to your UpYear to show your 2Up totals. When browsing any sections of your report, toggle the button at the top of your screen to change your calculations from single to double vision!

Your Journey Has Just Begun..

Thanks to every Upsider who dared to dream with us this year.

Hopefully your 2022 UpYear in review shed some light on the unknown mysteries of your Spending and Saving. If your numbers are not everything you thought they’d be — that’s totally okay! Your future is not yet written and as always, you’re the master of your destiny.

2023 is already shaping up to be everything you dreamed.

Don’t forget, you can come back to view your 2022 UpYear in review at any time. Just take a scroll through your activity feed and tap on the UpYear activity item again. We’ll keep the number crunchers running so your figures will update as you make it to the end of 2022.

If UpYear made you think you’d like to do things a bit differently in 2023 have a read of some super quick tips on levelling up your money to get you on the path to feeling good about your finances.

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: UpYear, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Custom Spending Insights

Noticed a new taste of rainbow in your Up feed? We’ve tuned up Insights so they can turn at your speed. Engineer María Acuña lays out what’s changing.

Maria

Dec 01, 2022

How to stop impulse spending

Dodge like a ninja. Save like a shark. Whether your financial demons are delivery apps or deeper struggles, here’s our best tips for curbing the impulse to spend.

Up

Nov 17, 2022
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_your-upyear-2023_.txt ===

UpYear is Here!

How to Up

Peel Back The Mysteries of Your 2023.

We’ve reached high into the clouds and slapped together the final pieces of your financial puzzle, logically laying out your entire spending and saving story before your very eyes. Powered by the purest form of cosmic calculations, we present to you your very own personalised annual report — UpYear: the easiest way to take a look back at how you spent and saved in 2023.

Remove yourself from the day to day — use these numbers to get a better understanding of how your money moved throughout the year, and put yourself in a good position to build better habits that stick in the new year.

Getting Your 2023 UpYear in Review

Today marks the start of your greatest hits tour. We’re sending out a special notification direct to your device letting you know your collection of personalised UpYear calculations are complete and ready to view.

If you’re an Upsider, your UpYear will arrive at some point from today, so keep an eye on your activity feed to find it. We’ve pre-installed your UpYear review to reveal itself as an item directly in your activity feed.

For the clearest path to your UpYear review make sure you’re up to date and running the latest version of Up (3.2.0). From here, simply summon your Up app on your device as you normally would and tap in any time to walk the halls of your 2023 UpYear review.

For Your Eyes Only.

Viewing your UpYear is a path you must walk alone and your calculations are unique to you. This is a special report on your financial journey through 2023 so we’ve purposely kept your financial data private and only you can access your review.

Once conjured, an UpYear report will hang around in your browser for a short period of time before you’ll need to head back to your app once more to authenticate and relive UpYear 2023.

What's packed into UpYear 2023?

UpYear is your personal tour guide through your financial ins and outs of the year that was. See exactly where you’re at the end of 2023 and make the choice to continue on your path, or write a new chapter.

Break open the plastic on your UpYear and breath in the sweet smell of your total spending and saving. Each purchase is organised and broken down into digestible Category Insights — perfect for exploration. Calculate how many coffee purchases it took to get you through, or rediscover the ‘Top Places You Shopped’ in 2023.

More Of You. More Of 2.

For those fighting finances together with 2Up, we’ve enhanced our couples calculations so it’s easier to see your UpYear in clear 2Up vision with your Player 2.

To view your shared 2Up Spending and Saving stats just toggle between Up and 2Up at the top of each UpYear section. Transform your report to a joint effort or leave it as ‘Table for 1’. The choice remains yours.  

Build a Bigger Picture of 2023

This year we’ve added more in-depth insights to explore from the year that was. Tap through any of your top Spending Categories to bless your eyes with a second layer of numbers with your Top Subcategories, Average spend and Total Spent for the year.

This year, you’re up against yourself. In UpYear 2023 you can now see how your numbers have changed since last year's report. Keep an eye out for comparisons to your 2022 data and get the drop on any spending and saving trends you’d like to see more of, or some you’d rather not.

The Next Chapter Starts Now..

Thanks to every Upsider who rode with us this year.

We hope your 2023 UpYear review painted a clearer picture of your Spending and Saving. If your numbers are not everything you thought they’d be — that’s okay! Your future is not yet written and as always, you’re the master of your destiny.

2024 is ready for the taking.

Don’t forget, you can come back to view your 2023 UpYear in review at any time. Just take a scroll through your activity feed and tap on the UpYear activity item again. We’ll keep the number crunchers running so your figures will update as you make it to the end of 2023.

Finish off with a New Year Special.

Walk out of 2023 in style and start the new year on a financial high. Starting today you can score yourself $10 when you successfully Hook-Up-a-Mate with the gift of Up. Give your mates an early upgrade, they’ll get $10 when they successfully sign up so they can hit the ground running.

This special is here for a good time, not a long time. Get inviting from the ‘Hook Up a Mate’ menu in your Up app today. Offer ends 31st Jan 2024 — after this date, your referral bonus will return to its normal amount.

Learn more about referrals & suss out the T&Cs @ up.com.au/hook_up_a_mate/

Up

Easy Money

@up_banking

Tags: UpYear, Insights

Get the gist

We’ll swing our monthly newsletter and release notes your way.

Preferred Name
Email
Go

Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System is here, but what is it and how does it work? Hear from the mind behind the machine on why Hi—Fi is the future of money management.

Anson Parker

Nov 03, 2023

Feel-Good Features

Add these 3 brand new financial power moves to your arsenal and take a shortcut on your path towards financial freedom.

Up

Aug 03, 2023
Keep reading

More from the makers of Up.

=== blog_zap-card_.txt ===

Up Blog

Keep up to date with in-depth content from the makers of Up.

Zap Card
Back to Blog

UP CARD VS ZAP CARD: Pixel Meets Plastic

In this financial focus we compare and analyse the strengths and drawbacks of Up's physical and digital cards. Break down the powers each card wields and discover the style of spending that will grant you the upper hand for good. Ring the bell and read our full round-by-round report.

Up

Apr 05, 2023

Get to know the 2022 Line Up

We take a look back at some of the bigger features we released last year with a speedy shuffle through the what, why and when. We made some fine things in 2022 and had some damn fine times along the way...

Up

Feb 06, 2023

=== careers_.txt ===

Careers at Up

Come and help us feed into prosperity, not off of it

About us

Up is built by Ferocia, a technology company that is proudly part of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. We still value face to face interactions, and as such are currently only hiring in Melbourne or adjacent areas.

Ferocia hits that sweet spot of having a small company rhythm, with large company reach and resources. The success of Up speaks for itself, and we are proud that Bendigo and Adelaide Bank is carbon neutral, community minded, and committed to high standards of corporate governance.

Banking is an essential service for the advantaged, disadvantaged, and everyone in between. We believe that through innovation, empathy, and compassion, we can help the people who most need it have a better relationship with their money.

We take diversity and inclusivity seriously, so no matter who you are or who you love, we just need you to be yourself.

Roles we're currently hiring for
CX
CX Strategy Lead
Support
Upside Guide
Role not listed here?

If you're interested in a role that isn't listed here, send an email through to careers@up.com.au with your resume and a brief spiel on what you are passionate about and we'll take it from there.

=== careers_cx-strategy-lead_.txt ===

CX Strategy Lead
About Ferocia

We're the team behind Up, but under the hood, we're Ferocia - a passionate tech company driven by financial inclusion. Since 2011, we've been crafting innovative financial tools, starting with the digital platform for Bendigo Bank. We believe technology can empower everyone, from the advantaged to the disadvantaged, which is why Up was born.

Now, as part of the Bendigo and Adelaide Bank family, we combine the agility of a small company with the reach and stability of a major player. Together, we're carbon neutral, community-focused, and dedicated to high standards of corporate governance. Our mission? To leverage technology to help Australians move from financial stress and anxiety to a place of confidence and empowerment.

Want to join us? We'd love to hear from you

The opportunity
Help shape the future of CX at Up and Bendigo Bank

We're looking for a passionate CX Strategy Lead to join our team and work on an exciting initiative for both Bendigo Bank and Ferocia (Up).

This is a rare chance to join a small but growing team and make a meaningful impact on people's lives.

This role is about maturing our current approach to customer insights and research while leading the discovery, design, and implementation of a group CX function to support both Up and Bendigo Bank teams and customers.

We're after a strategic, hands-on leader who wants to roll up their sleeves, get involved, and help build a highly skilled, empowered team. You'll thrive in this role if you know the value of showing over telling and balancing short-term wins with long-term transformation.

You'll work closely with Nektarea, Head of Customer Experience, who will provide strategic direction and support. A CX Program Manager will partner with you to operationalise plans and align teams. You'll also be supported by experienced researchers and analysts within Up's current CX team, along with seasoned customer experts from Bendigo. To bring this initiative to life, you'll wear many hats and play a key role in shaping the direction of work — showcasing what great CX looks like, influencing decisions, and driving initiatives to successful delivery.

What we're looking for

A seasoned CX strategist and practitioner with about 10 years experience in customer insights and/or CX roles, bringing the following tools in their kit:

CX leadership: Hands-on experience designing and implementing CX and VoC programs that go beyond surveys - incorporating behavioural insights and innovative research methods in complex organisations.
CX research: Master of qualitative and quantitative methods, including journey mapping and behavioural insights. You’re an expert in CX metrics and passionate about using metrics which generate meaningful insights.
Strategy: A visionary thinker who connects the dots between customer needs, business goals and operational realities, balancing vision with practical execution.
Results-driven execution: Skilled at identifying and scaling impactful CX initiatives, demonstrating clear ROI.
Comfort with tech and tools: Experience implementing or using CX platforms (e.g., Qualtrics, Medallia, Salesforce) and analytics tools (e.g., Tableau, Power BI, Metabase).
Empathy and influence: A strong advocate for CX as a team sport, you’re an expert at storytelling, using data-driven insights to inspire and motivate change across all levels of the business. You bring customer and team experiences to life, fostering a culture of empathy while driving impactful transformation.
Team building expertise: Experience leading teams, fostering collaboration, and mentoring talent to build CX capabilities, as this role may evolve into one with direct reports as the CX function grows.
Decisive action: the ability to make quick, wise, and valuable decisions and choose the best course of action.
Passion: Harder to define, but we're looking for people who have a desire to push the limits, break the status quo, and be at the forefront of where customers & technology are leading us. An eagerness to learn, expand your skills, and do the best work possible.
Independence: Comfortable with ambiguity and proactive in identifying and pursuing opportunities. You "get shit done" autonomously while knowing when to ask for help.
Your first three months

Here is what we are going to ask you to do when you start with us:

Lead discovery: Design and execute a 12-week discovery phase to assess the CX and VoC programs across both brands. Map and assess existing capabilities, analyse research, and collaborate with key stakeholders to align on objectives and identify gaps, quick wins and opportunities.
Shape the future of CX for the group: Use discovery insights to propose a roadmap for a group-wide CX and VoC function that builds on existing strengths while addressing the unique needs of each brand. Highlight what’s needed to support and scale this vision effectively.
Integrate insights: Partner with researchers and analysts to create a cohesive framework that blends behavioural, qualitative, and quantitative insights with business objectives.
Establish governance: Develop accountability frameworks and collaboration processes to ensure insights drive meaningful outcomes.
Advocate for customers: Elevate the role of customer insights in strategic decision-making, demonstrating the ROI of great CX at every level of the organisation.
Provide insights and suggestions: To improve how insights are generated and delivered to maximise the value of the work.
Communicate successfully: Within the project teams and at multiple levels of management, building trust across the organisation.
Document ROI or impact: For a given initiative or prioritisation decision.
Present: To executive leadership teams.
Craft and executing on cross functional CX-driven initiatives: Including capturing and defining requirements into impactful work items.
Working at Ferocia

We have a hybrid work culture where people can attend the Ferocia office as much or as little as makes sense for them, but we are currently only hiring in Melbourne (or adjacent areas) as we still value physically getting together at least a half-dozen times per year.

We offer:

A small team of passionate people
Generous leave and parental policy
Flexible working schedule
Great city office and perks (rooftop, gym and personal trainer, games…)
Budget for personal development, training, and conferences
Employee Assistance Program via Sonder
Home loan rebates for our loans (conditions apply)
Ongoing equity grants (conditions apply)

Not quite ticking every box? Throw your hat in the ring anyway! At Ferocia, we're all about shaking things up and rewriting the rules. We thrive on diversity and inclusion, and we wholeheartedly encourage you to step up and shine. Let us be the judge of your qualifications for this role - you just might surprise yourself!

To apply, click here. If the role is still posted, we're still accepting applications!

Explore other positions

=== careers_upside-guide_.txt ===

Upside Guide
About Ferocia

We're the team behind Up, but under the hood, we're Ferocia - a passionate tech company driven by financial inclusion. Since 2011, we've been crafting innovative financial tools, starting with the digital platform for Bendigo Bank. We believe technology can empower everyone, from the advantaged to the disadvantaged, which is why Up was born.

Now, as part of the Bendigo and Adelaide Bank family, we combine the agility of a small company with the reach and stability of a major player. Together, we're carbon neutral, community-focused, and dedicated to high standards of corporate governance. Our mission? To leverage technology to help Australians move from financial stress and anxiety to a place of confidence and empowerment.

Want to join us? We'd love to hear from you.

Melbourne based only

We’re looking for experienced and passionate customer support professionals to join our Melbourne based team as we continue on our journey to guide over a million Upsiders on the path towards feeling good about money.

We provide support from 6am-12am, 7 days a week through our super-powered in-app chat 'Talk to Us', driven by our 4 distinctive support values.

Your day to day involves injecting these values into each and every interaction and being the magic behind ‘Talk to Us’. There’ll be times you chat with Upsiders over the phone, but the majority of interactions are via written communication, so a strong writing ability is a must.

You’ll learn to navigate, live and breathe our in-house built customer support software, which powers every interaction. Alongside this, you’ll also be taught to use some more traditional systems for handling some of the more serious banking stuff.

You’ll work shoulder-to-shoulder with a talented team of Ferocians who are constantly striving to improve our systems and the overall support experience. You are completely empowered to provide feedback and work alongside our wider team to improve our in-house systems, ultimately leading to a constantly improving and ever-evolving experience for Upsiders.

Though not everyone works shift work, it’s something you’ll need to be comfortable with. It’s not just about shift work though — our team regularly gets together for professional development with our end goal becoming the most loved customer support team in Australia.

This full-time ‘Upside Guide’ role consists of 5 shifts per week (between Monday-Sunday).

You'll work closely with our Customer Experience (CX) and Engineering teams to keep up to date on new features and learn to identify and manage customer complaints. You'll collaborate with your peers to deal with different tasks to keep the experience smooth, including: "What is this charge on my card?", "Here is my ID, can I please have an account?", "Why can't I send my money to this place?" or "I need to buy a house, how do I go about that?" (That's not an exhaustive list!)

The right people for this role will be excited to join a company with a strong culture of quality, continuous improvement, innovation, accountability, and good vibes! You’ll pride yourself on attention to detail and a passion for helping and teaching others.

Experience, Knowledge & Skills
Customer service experience
Banking experience with a knowledge of banking systems (preferred but not a deal breaker)
Phone Support
Process improvement
Tech Savvy
Be Up for change
Working at Ferocia

We have a hybrid work culture where people can attend the Ferocia office as much or as little as makes sense for them, but we are currently only hiring in Melbourne (or adjacent areas) as we still value physically getting together at least a half-dozen times per year.

We offer:

A small team of passionate people
Generous leave and parental policy
Flexible working schedule
Great city office and perks (rooftop, gym and personal trainer, games…)
Budget for personal development, training, and conferences
Employee Assistance Program via Sonder
Home loan rebates for our loans (conditions apply)
Ongoing equity grants (conditions apply)

Not quite ticking every box? Throw your hat in the ring anyway! At Ferocia, we're all about shaking things up and rewriting the rules. We thrive on diversity and inclusion, and we wholeheartedly encourage you to step up and shine. Let us be the judge of your qualifications for this role – you just might surprise yourself!

To apply, click here. If the role is still posted, we're still accepting applications!

Explore other positions

=== cdr-policy_.txt ===

Consumer Data Right Policy
About Up

Up is a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879.

This Consumer Data Right Policy applies solely to Up.

Our policy

Up (“we / us”) recognises the importance of protecting your privacy and managing your banking data in an open and transparent manner. We appreciate that the success of our business is largely dependent on a relationship of trust being established and maintained with past, current and prospective customers and other individuals with whom we conduct business.

This Policy sets out how we will manage your banking data in accordance with the Consumer Data Right. It also outlines how you can request access to or correction of your banking data and our complaints process.

For further information about how we handle your personal information, please refer to our Privacy Policy.

The Consumer Data Right (“CDR”)

The CDR gives you the right to share your banking data with participants who are accredited under the CDR (Accredited Data Recipients). It is an opt-in system that gives you greater control over how your banking data is handled making it easier for you to access products and services.

Using the CDR facilitates the automated, secure sharing of your banking data only with your express consent. This means you can choose to share your existing banking data—such as your transaction history, interest rates and account balances—with other banks or Accredited Data Recipients. For example, you might opt to securely share your transaction data with an external budgeting tool provider.

We do not provide voluntary consumer data or voluntary product data as defined in the CDR Rules.

Product data

The CDR requires that we provide access to banking data about products we offer including banking data about the features and descriptions of our products, interest rates, fees and charges and eligibility criteria.

Product banking data is publicly available information that can only be consumed by specialized software systems. This banking data can be used by businesses—such as comparison websites—to compare products on the market.

We do not charge a fee for access to product banking data.

Data made available under the CDR

CDR data we hold about you that we are required to make available includes:

Your name
Your contact details (address, phone number, email address)
Your account data, including your account number, accounts balances, scheduled payments and payees
Your transaction records, including dates, amounts, descriptions and other parties involved
Information about products you hold with us

Up CDR data includes transactions dating back to the time your accounts were created with us. We won’t share your CDR data without your consent.

How to access your Up CDR data

You can opt to share your Up CDR data with an Accredited Data Recipient, so that they can provide goods or services to you based on your banking data.

The Accredited Data Recipient is first required to seek your consent via their website (or app).
The Accredited Data Recipient will redirect you to Up, where we’ll ask you for your registered mobile number.
We’ll send you a One Time Password, which you can access through your registered Up app.
Note: We will never ask you to provide your registered mobile number or passcode to a third party. Always log in to your Up account via the Up app.
We’ll ask you to select which accounts you wish to share banking data from and we’ll confirm the data that the Accredited Data Recipient has requested, including the time period for which your banking data will be shared.
You have the option to confirm or decline any request to share CDR data with an Accredited Data Recipient.
Finally, you are redirected back to the Accredited Data Recipient’s website (or app).
Note: Details of any CDR data you have opted to share can be viewed and managed in the Up app. Navigate to “Up”, then to “Data Sharing”.
Correction of your Up CDR data

In most cases you will be able to correct banking data held by us in the Up app.

If you believe banking data we hold about you is inaccurate, out of date or incomplete, you should contact us by:

Using Talk to Us — in the Up app
Emailing us — at support@up.com.au
Calling Us — on 1300 002 258

Within 30 business days after your request, we will either:

Update your banking data that is inaccurate, out of date or incomplete. In some cases we may request you provide us with supporting documentation to amend the banking data we hold about you; or
If we do not agree that your banking data is inaccurate, out of date or incomplete, we will give you written notice including the reasons why we do not agree with you and how you can make a complaint.
How to make a complaint

If you wish to make a complaint regarding the handling of your banking data by us, you can make a complaint by contacting our Customer Support Team. The best place to start is by using “Talk to Us” in the Up app. You can also call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au. Please provide us with as much detail as possible about your complaint.

We will acknowledge receipt of your complaint as soon as possible
We will promptly investigate your complaint and notify you of the outcome
We aim to resolve your complaint within 30 days
We will inform you in writing about our decision

If you are not satisfied with the response provided by our Customer Support Team, you have the option of referring your complaint directly to Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA).

AFCA provides fair and independent financial services complaint resolution that is free to consumers.

In writing to: GPO Box 3, Melbourne Vic 3001
Online: www.afca.org.au
Phone: 1800 931 678
Email: info@afca.org.au

Time limits may apply to complain to AFCA and so you should act promptly or otherwise consult the AFCA website to find out if or when the time limit relevant to your circumstances expire.

OR

Office of the Australian Information Commissioner

GPO Box 5218, Sydney NSW 2001

Online: www.oaic.gov.auPhone: 1300 363 992
Email: enquiries@oaic.gov.au

Last updated 7 October 2024.

=== collect-for-a-christmas-present_.txt ===

HOW TO: COLLECT CASH FOR A CHRISTMAS PRESENT

Collect cash for a
Christmas present

So you've volunteered to organise a group Christmas pressie for someone you love. Nice one!

Up has some really simple ways to collect money from mates, keep track of who's paid and who needs a bit of a nudge, and keep the money you collect separate and safe, away from your other cash.

Quick Slice or Request a Payment

Let’s say you told the fam that if they put in money, you‘d pick out some extra nice earrings for Mum. She's worth it, and you don't trust your Aunty Marge to choose.

The super simplest way to do this is just to Slice the cost or Request Money. You buy the earrings, and use Up to send requests to everyone else. Up will remind them to pay you back so there's no awkward follow ups.

To use Slices or Request Money you’ll need everyone else to be on Up (hook them Up and you’ll both get $ for more pressies). You’ll also need to be cool with fronting the bill. If that isn’t the right fit, let’s go with Option 2.

Learn how Savers work
Set Up A Saver

Let’s say you’re willing to do the work, but covering the whole cost upfront is way too big of an ask.

Fire up a Saver called “Bling for Mum“, and give it a goal of $200 for that pair you know will keep you in Mum's good books all year.

Learn how Savers work
Share your Upname or generated PayID to collect cash

Every Up account comes with a convenient (and unique) Upname and corresponding PayID you can send to everyone asking them to contribute. Most PayID payments arrive instantly and you'll be notified as soon as the money hits your account.

Learn how Upnames work
Forward Those Funds

As the payments roll in, long press on each transaction in your Activity feed to “Forward” that amount. A list of your Savers will appear, and you can shoot those $$ straight into your “Bling for Mum” Saver for safe keeping.

That way, the money isn’t hanging around in your main balance pretending to be yours. And you can see how much you’ve collected at a glance. You'll know when it's time to head to the shops.

Learn about Forwards
Head to the shops or order online

Yes! Everyone's paid and it's time to get shopping.

You pay for the surprise (Up lets you use Apple and Google Pay straight away), but that money has come out of your main account instead of the Saver you set up.

Things are out of kilter - you’re out of pocket, and your “Bling for Mum” Saver is still full. Let’s Cover that purchase to restore balance!

Use Google and Apple Pay straight away
Cover To Restore Balance

Just like Forwarding, long press on the purchase notification. Now you can Cover the charge from your “Bling for Mum” Saver.

The exact amount of your purchase will be transferred from the Saver, back into your main account. Your balance, and your personal equilibrium, are restored.

Learn about Covers

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== community_.txt ===

Upsider Perks

It’s the perks that make life on The Upside even sweeter—from exclusive events and regular merch giveaways to promos like Perk-Up, Happy Hour, and Hook Up a Mate—all designed to help you earn extra cash.

RANDOM ACTS OF

Free Coffee

Perk-Up gives you a chance to score a free coffee weekdays from 7-11am (AEST/AEDT). Simply buy a coffee (up to $6.50) with your Up card, and you could get it on the house!

CHEAP FRIDAY KNOCK-OFFS WITH

Happy Hour

Start the weekend with a happy ending. Pay on Up for a chance to win cash back on your end of week food & drinks. Every Friday between 5-7pm (AEST/AEDT). Cheers!

competitions & giveaways

Merch

Stay tuned to our socials for regular merch drops, competitions, and updates on the location of our Up vending machine. Plus, enjoy access to our exclusive merch collections through our Up High subscription.

give the gift of up with

Hook Up A Mate

Invite your mates to join Up, and they’ll get access to tools that make saving easy and managing money simple. You’ll also earn a $10 referral bonus when they sign up, and each year you stay an Upsider, your bonus will increase by $1. Win-win.

celebrate with

Upperversaries

Upperversaries celebrate each year you’ve spent on The Upside. With every lap around the sun, you’ll receive a personalised Upperversary card, a special token of appreciation for your journey with us. It’s our way of saying thanks for being part of our community.

Download
Up Today
Try it now→

=== confirm_.txt ===

Great work!
Check your inbox for a verification email.

=== credit-guide_.txt ===

Credit Guide

Last updated 15 July 2024

About this Credit Guide

This document is the Credit Guide of Up, a division of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited (ABN 11 068 049 178) (Bendigo and Adelaide Bank).

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank is a credit provider and a holder of Australian Credit Licence number 237879.

This Credit Guide has been designed to provide you with key information, so you are informed and aware of necessary matters prior to deciding to use the credit services of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank for Up credit products.

This Credit Guide may be provided to you by authorised staff of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank (including Up) as soon as practicable after it becomes apparent to us that we are likely to enter into a contract with you.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank takes responsibility under its Australian Credit Licence for the credit activities engaged in on its behalf and its authorised staff or its credit representatives.

Up is a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank.

The Up software application is provided by Up Money Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. Bendigo and Adelaide Bank is the issuer of the Up branded banking and financial products provided through the Up app and the credit provider for credit products provided through the Up app.

Throughout this Credit Guide references to:

“entering into a contract” means entering into a credit contract or consumer lease or increasing the credit limit of an existing credit contract or consumer lease.

“we”, “us”, or “our” are references to Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, and Up as a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. References to "our staff" and “our branch staff” have a corresponding meaning.

Contact details
You can contact us:
“Talk to Us” in the Up App (general enquiries)
Telephone 1300 557 155
Credit Assessment of your loan application
Before entering into a contract, Bendigo and Adelaide Bank will perform a credit assessment. This assessment will include making enquiries about:
your objectives and requirements including the purpose of the credit; and
your financial situation.

We will also take reasonable steps to verify your financial information.

The purpose of the credit assessment is to ensure, based on the information provided, that the proposed contract, is not unsuitable for you.

The contract is unsuitable for you, if at the time the contract is entered into:

it is likely that you will not be able to comply with the financial obligations under the contract or you could only comply with substantial hardship; or
the contract does not meet your objectives and requirements.

The contract will create a substantial hardship if you would only be able to meet the requirements of the contract by selling your principal place of residence.

We cannot enter into a contract which is unsuitable for you. This is a legal requirement for Bendigo and Adelaide Bank.

It is important that the information that you provide for this assessment regarding your financial situation, objectives and requirements is complete and accurate and includes any likely future changes that will impact your ability to repay the contract.

Final Assessment

If your contract is assessed as not unsuitable and you will enter or have already entered into the contract with us, you have a right to ask us for a written copy of the Final Assessment.

The Final Assessment will contain the factual information which we used to assess the contract as not unsuitable including:

the record of financial information you have given us;
the information about your objectives and requirements;
the enquiries we have undertaken to verify your financial situation;
details of a contract we have offered to you.

You should notify us immediately if the information in the Final Assessment is not correct or has changed.

You can request a copy of the Final Assessment at any time before entering into the contract. If you make such a request, we have to provide you a written copy of the Final Assessment before entering the contract. We cannot enter into the contract, until we provide you with a copy of the Final Assessment.

You are also able to request a written copy of the Final Assessment at any time up until seven years after the contract was entered into. If you request the Final Assessment within two years of the contract being entered into, the assessment must be supplied to you within seven business days. If you request the Final Assessment beyond two years but less than seven years, the assessment must be supplied to you within 21 business days. There is no charge for the supply of the Final Assessment.

Resolving complaints

We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customer’s expectations and address them genuinely and effectively.

You can raise your complaint with us by:

Telephoning 1300 941 461 (specialised home loan applications team)
Telephone 1300 002 258 (Up Support team)
“Talk to us” in the Up App

If you are not satisfied with the outcome of a complaint, the Customer Feedback Team is able to assist. You can contact the Customer Feedback Team by:

Telephoning 1300 361 911 - 8.30am – 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT), Monday to Friday
Emailing feedback@bendigoadelaide.com.au
By completing the relevant Customer Feedback form online or sending a letter to the

Customer Feedback Team,
Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited,
Reply Paid 480, Bendigo VIC 3552

Alternatively you may refer your complaint directly to the appropriate External Dispute Resolution scheme.

We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority
GPO Box 3
Melbourne VIC 3001


Telephone: 1800 931 678
Email: info@afca.org.au
Web: www.afca.org.au

Time limits may apply to refer a complaint to AFCA and so you should act promptly or otherwise consult the AFCA website to find out if, or when the time limit relevant to your circumstances expires.

If your complaint relates to how we handle your personal information you can also contact the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC):

GPO Box 5218
Sydney NSW 2001


Telephone: 1300 363 992
Email: enquiries@oaic.gov.au
Web: www.oaic.gov.au


Financial Difficulty

We understand there may be times when your personal circumstances change. Perhaps you have lost your job, suffered an illness or injury or have been impacted by a natural disaster.

If as a result you cannot afford the minimum repayment on your home loan, personal loan or credit card, and you would like us to consider if we can provide you with financial difficulty assistance, then please contact us immediately.

In many instances a temporary arrangement can be made quickly and efficiently over the phone.

Alternatively we may need to complete a more detailed assessment of your personal and financial circumstances to identify how we may be able to help you.

If you would like to apply for assistance, including a request for postponement of enforcement proceedings, please contact Bendigo and Adelaide Bank’s dedicated Mortgage Help team on the below details:

Telephone: 1800 652 146 - between 8.00 am and 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT), Monday to Friday
Fax: (03) 5485 7631
Email: MortgageHelpRetail@BendigoAdelaide.com.au

If you are not satisfied with the outcome of your request for assistance, you may choose to contact our external resolution provider, the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (refer section titled ‘Resolving complaints’ for details).

Download the Up Credit Guide (PDF)

=== download_.txt ===

Get Started Here

Sign up in just 5 minutes today and join over 1 million Aussies living life on The Upside.

Download Up

=== easy-money-giveaway-terms_.txt ===

EA$Y Money Giveaway Promotion
Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Start date: 11/04/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT
End date: 13/04/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT

Eligible entrants

Entry is only open to Australian residents who are 16 years and over and existing Up account holders. Entrants under the age of 18 must have parent or legal guardian approval to enter.

How to enter

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

1. visit @up_banking on Instagram (located at www.instagram.com/up_banking);
2. comment on the promotional post with their ‘Upname’ and tag a friend;
3. like the promotional post; and
4. follow @up_banking on Instagram.
Entries permitted

Only one (1) eligible entry per person will be accepted. By completing the entry method, the entrant will receive one (1) entry.

Total prize pool

AUD $3,400.00

Prize Description

The prize consists of:

1. The prize is a Limited Edition 'EA$Y Money' t-shirt (colour: black) (sizes S, M, L, XL, XXL) and an ‘EA$Y’ cap.
Number of prizes

100

Value (per prize)

AUD$34.00

Winning Method

Draw: computerised random selection - 20/04/24 at 12:00 pm AEST

Conditions

The prizes will be delivered by mail within 10 weeks after 20/04/24.

Winning notification

The winners will be contacted via their Up app within seven (7) days of the draw.

Unclaimed Prizes

Unclaimed Prizes Prizes must be claimed by 27/04/24 at 12:00 pm AEST. In the event of an unclaimed prize, the prize will be redrawn on 28/04/24 at 12:00 pm AEST by Up.

The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
Employees (and their immediate family members) of agencies/companies directly associated with the conduct of this Promotion, the Promoter, businesses involved in determination of winner/s for the Promotion, businesses involved in the management of the Promotion, any organisation benefiting from the Promotion, the Promoter’s distributors, suppliers, subsidiary companies/businesses and associated companies and agencies are not eligible to enter. "Immediate family member" means any of the following: spouse, ex-spouse, de-facto spouse, child or step-child (whether natural or by adoption), parent, step-parent, grandparent, step-grandparent, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister or 1st cousin.
If a prize is won by a person under the age of 18, the prize may be awarded to the winner's parent or guardian and where applicable to the prize a nominated parent/guardian must accompany any person under 18 years of age.
Draw
The draw will take place at Up HQ, Level 7, 271 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000 at 12:00 pm AEST on 20/04/24 using computerised random selection.
The first hundred (100) valid entries drawn will be the winners of the prizes specified in the Schedule above.
The draw conductor may draw additional reserve entries in case an invalid entry or entrant is drawn.
If a draw is scheduled on the weekend or a public holiday, the draw will be conducted at the same time and location on the following business day. The Promoter will ensure each draw is open for public scrutiny and anyone may witness the draw on request. The winner of a drawn prize is determined by chance.
All reasonable attempts will be made to contact each winner.
If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize within a reasonable time, as specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
Entry and continued participation in the Promotion is dependent on the entrant following and acting in accordance with the Instagram Terms of Use, (http://instagram.com/legal/terms/). This Promotion adheres to the terms and conditions set out in the Instagram promotion guidelines which can be found at: http://help.instagram.com/179379842258600. Any questions or comments regarding the Promotion must be directed to the Promoter, not to Instagram. The entrant releases Instagram and its associated companies from all liabilities arising in respect of the Promotion. Entrants acknowledge that the Promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with Instagram.
The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and specification.
No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion. Where entry is allowed online, there is no additional cost to enter the Promotion other than any cost paid by the entrant to access the website or social media platform of entry via their Internet service provider.
If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter will handle personal information in accordance with its privacy policy which is located at https://up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion and to the State and Territory lottery departments as required under the relevant lottery legislation. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion.
The Promoter reserves the right to refuse to allow a winner to take part in any or all aspects of a prize, if the Promoter determines in their absolute discretion, that a winner is not in the physical or mental condition necessary to be able to safely participate in or accept the prize. It is a condition of accepting the prize that a winner (or their parent or legal guardian if under the age of 18) may be required to sign a legal release as determined by the Promoter in its absolute discretion, prior to receiving a prize. If a winner is under the age of 18, a nominated parent or legal guardian of the winner will be required to sign the legal release on the winner's behalf.
If a prize is provided to the Promoter by a third party, the prize is subject to the terms and conditions of the third party prize supplier. The terms and conditions which apply to the prize at the time it is issued to the winner will prevail over these Conditions of Entry in the event of any inconsistency. To the extent permitted by law the Promoter accepts no responsibility or liability for any delay or failure by the third party to deliver the prize, any delay or failure relating to the prize itself or failure by the third party to meet any of its obligations in these Conditions of Entry or otherwise.
Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize, subject to State or Territory regulation.
The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion or claiming a prize, the Promoter will resolve the dispute in direct consultation with the entrant. If the dispute cannot be resolved the Promoter’s decision will be final.
The winner(s) will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 10 April 2024

=== easy-on-the-environment_.txt ===

It’s our responsibility to do better.

Caring about the planet isn’t a choice, it’s our responsibility.

At Up, we’re digital by design, and although having a small physical footprint has a positive impact on the environment, that’s not enough for us.

Our card strategy is

Digital First

Almost all of our comms are digital, but if you’re after a physical card, you’ll need to opt-in — we don’t send them out by default.

In 2022, we introduced environmentally friendly physical cards for 2Up joint accounts (forged from 82% recycled materials) alongside our digital ‘Zap’ cards — zero plastic and less stress on the environment.

We are

Carbon Neutral

We’re only just getting started, but by reducing our emissions as well as maintaining a carbon neutral certification since 2022, we’re on a positive trajectory that we’re proud to hang our hat on.

We don’t lend to

Fossil Fuels

Lending to fossil fuel projects is not an idea we entertain — this includes providing finance directly to projects or large scale electricity generation in coal, coal seam gas, crude oil and natural gas.

We don’t support

Native Forest Logging

Alongside our parents, Bendigo & Adelaide Bank, we don’t lend to native forest logging projects.

Our Environmental Commitments

We contribute to
Aussie Environmental Innovations.

The waste created in our everyday lives deserves serious consideration, but what steps can we take to make sure it doesn't end up in our oceans?

Well, our mates over at Seabin are doing an incredible job of tackling this issue, and we're proud to support them via our own Seabin unit in Manly, Sydney.

Litres of water filtered
for microplastics

Each month, we report on the microplastic and marine litter data our Seabin captures, and we’ll continue to support Seabin on their journey to improve the health of our oceans.

Learn More About Seabin

The waste created in our everyday lives deserves serious consideration, but what steps can we take to make sure it doesn't end up in our oceans?

Well, our mates over at Seabin are doing an incredible job of tackling this issue, and we're proud to support them via our own Seabin unit in Manly, Sydney.

Plastic items captured daily

Total marine litter captured

We want to hear from you

Who should we support next?

If you’re a part of our community, we want you to feel confident that your money is used for good. Got a great initiative you think we should get behind? We want to hear from you.

partnerships@up.com.au

=== electronic_verification_terms_and_conditions_.txt ===

Electronic Verification Terms and Conditions

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited and its related entities are required by the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 to verify your identity before we can provide you with financial products and services. Electronic verification allows us to verify your identity by using electronic tools and external data sources.

How electronic verification works

In order to verify your identity electronically, we will ask you for your details (such as your name, address, date of birth) and details of your identification documents. This information will be passed on to external organisations in order to electronically match your information with information on their databases. These organisations will assess and advise us whether all or some of the information you provided matches their records. We have an arrangement with Equifax Pty Ltd who completes electronic verification on our behalf.

The external data sources used to verify your identity include:

Credit information files held by Equifax Pty Ltd (this is only to confirm your identity and is not a credit check)
Publicly available information such as the electoral roll and white pages
Information held by the official record holder via third party systems

It is an offence under the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 to provide false and misleading information about your identity.

Who your information will be shared with

We will share your personal information with the following external organisations for the purposes of verifying your identity:

Equifax Pty Ltd
The official record holder via third party systems, such as Commonwealth and State government departments

These organisations may use your personal information and personal information of other individuals, such as names, addresses and dates of birth, for the purposes of preparing their assessments.

Your agreement

By agreeing to these terms and conditions you agree that:

The information you are providing is your personal information and you have authority to provide it to us, and
We may use and disclose your personal information for the purposes of electronic verification as described above.

Further information about how we collect and handle personal information is available in our Privacy Policy

=== faq_.txt ===

How can we help?

Got questions? Need answers? We got you.

Chat to our support team in-app using Talk to Us.

Can't access the app or card stolen?

Up in a nutshell

The big questions.

What is Up?

Up is an Australian mobile-only digital bank. Up is designed, developed and delivered through a collaboration between Ferocia (a software company) and Bendigo Bank. Up runs on your smartphone, and provides you with an app and a debit card linked to a real bank account. “Super-powered” banking refers to Up’s superior ease-of-use and awesome features including signing-up in as little as 3-minutes in-app, seamless merchant identification, instant in-app Apple Pay activation, real-time conversational payments, automated round-ups, spending insights, and more.

How safe is Up?

The Up app and all Up branded banking and financial products available in the Up app are issued and provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. Deposits provided through the Up apps are protected by the Financial Claims Scheme (FCS), up to $250,000 per person (in aggregate across all deposit products held with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank). Up also uses the latest security technology, including smartphone biometrics and advanced cryptography, to protect your money.

Is my money used ethically?

Deposits provided through Up are held by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. Where your Up deposits are held matters and because of this Bendigo has committed to:

Supporting global efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C by reducing absolute emissions to net zero by 2040.
No direct lending to projects or large-scale electricity generation in coal, coal seam gas, crude oil, natural gas and native forest logging.*
Maintaining Community Bank investment, through a profit-with-purpose social enterprise Community Bank model.
Gender diversity (40:40:20) at every level of the organisation by the end of 2025.
Reducing complexity, modernising and digitising the Bank to improve outcomes for customers and enhance protection over their personal data and information.
Continuing to be Australia’s Most Trusted Bank and maintaining both Bendigo Bank and Up’s strong customer satisfaction scores.

* Applies to all employees and all other parties acting for or on behalf of the Group that prepare credit applications and undertake credit decisioning.

Can I use my Up card overseas?

Yes! The Up card makes a great travel companion, and is accepted at more than 47 million Mastercard® acceptance locations worldwide. There are no fees on international purchases online or in person, and there’s no rebates or conditions to worry about.

So how much does Up cost?

Precise pricing for your Up account.

Does Up have monthly account keeping fees?

No. Up doesn’t charge monthly account keeping fees. In fact, Up is actually free for most standard use with practically no fees at all.

Does Up have any ATM fees?

ATM access for Up customers is currently free at most major banks in Australia, including Bendigo Bank and the 4 major banks. Although Up does not charge ATM fees, we do not control the fees charged by any other financial institution or independent ATM operator. All ATMs must display the fee at the time of transaction and allow you to accept or decline. If you choose to accept the fee we do not offer ATM rebates.

Okay, how do I get started?

How to get Up and running.

How do I fund my Up account? Can I deposit cash or cheques?

Funding your account digitally is a breeze: your Up spending account has a BSB and Account Number like any other bank account in Australia. You can also easily nominate your phone number or email address as a “PayID”. Up lets you use your BSB and Account Number, or your phone number or your email address to deposit money almost instantly using “Osko”. Osko provides near-instant payments 24/7 (including weekends) between participating financial institutions.

You can also deposit cheques through Bank@Post™ at your local Australia Post outlet with no fees attached.

Can I deposit cash or cheques?

You can deposit cash and cheques through Bank@Post™ at your local Australia Post outlet with no fees attached. All you need is your physical, activated Up card and PIN. You may also be asked for ID if depositing a cheque.

Please note: Cash/Cheque deposits may not be available for 5-10 business days.

How do I open an Up account?

To get an Up bank account on your mobile in under 3 minutes, simply download the Up app from the App Store for iOS or Google Play for Android and follow the instructions. Opening a regulated bank account in Australia requires an Australian Driver's Licence or a Passport. After we successfully validate your ID, you can start banking with Up.

Is there a limit to how much I can pay someone using Up?

Yep. Up applies dynamic payment limits at the time you create a payment. These limits are based on a number of factors, including how much or how frequently you’ve paid the intended recipient previously.

These limits are in place for the protection of both you and your money. Your specific limits will be visible when you make a payment.

Is there a limit to how much I can withdraw from an ATM using Up?

Up currently has a combined $1,000 daily limit for ATM and EFTPOS withdrawals, unless you ask for the daily limit to be changed.

Do I earn interest on the money I have in Up?

Once activated by making 5 successful physical or digital card purchases in a calendar month, Up pays 4.35% p.a. across your Up and 2Up Savers, up to a combined balance of $1M on deposits in your Up Savers as well as up to $1M in your 2Up Savers. Interest on Savers is calculated daily and paid monthly. Money held in Everyday accounts does not earn any interest. Read the full conditions.

What if I don’t want to earn interest? Can I opt out?

If you’d prefer not to earn interest on the money in your personal or 2Up Savers, you can opt out at any time.

Head to your Savers tab in-app, tap the “Bonus Rate” banner at the top of the Savers list, and press “Manage Interest Settings”.

Note: If you have a 2Up account, both you and your Player 2 have equal control over your interest settings. See Section 8 of the Up Terms and Conditions for more information.

How do I send money into my Up account from overseas?

It's simple to wire transfer money from an international destination to your Up account. You'll need to use a SWIFT code. For Up, the details you'll need are:

Swift code: BENDAU3B
Bank Name: Bendigo and Adelaide Bank
Address: Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550

Your account details will be your name, BSB and account number.

Just for your reference, the exchange rate applied on incoming transfers is updated daily and is subject to change without notice. You can check that here: https://www.bendigobank.com.au/calculators/foreign-exchange/

To have funds sent into your account from overseas the below fees will be charged:

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account: $10.00 AUD
Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account: $2.00 AUD
What should I use as the official name of this financial institution?

Often when you are setting up a new direct debit arrangement, you'll be asked to provide some details. For Up, these are those details:

Branch Name: Up Money / Bendigo and Adelaide Bank
Address: Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550
Account title: Your account title is your full name

What device features does Up support?

How Up works with your devices.

What smartphones does Up support?

Up currently supports the following devices:

iOS 13.4 or later, on Apple devices.
Android 6.0 or later, on Android devices.

For your security, and for the best experience on the Upside, we’d recommend keeping automatic app updates on, and your app up to date!

Does Up support Apple Pay, Google Pay, Samsung Pay and other digital wallets?

We certainly do! With Up, you can pay the way you want. You can add your Up card to Apple Pay, Google Pay, Samsung Pay, Garmin Pay and Fitbit Pay.

Does Up support Siri?

Yep. You can use Siri to check your Up account balance, or transfer money into one of your Up Savers. Key phrases for Siri are "Check my bank account", "Transfer $10 to my holiday account" and "Check my bank balance".

Does Up support Touch ID and Face ID?

Yep. Up supports both Touch ID and Face ID. You’ll be prompted to enable Touch ID or Face ID from within Up’s Activity screen, depending on the features your iPhone supports. You can still use a passcode if you prefer.

How do I add my Up card to Apple Pay?

Up supports instant in-app activation of Apple Pay which means there's no need to wait for your Up plastic card to arrive, Up will simply prompt you to add your card to Apple Pay as part of the sign-up process.

If you have an Apple Watch, once you've set it up for your Apple Wallet, you can use the Watch app on your iPhone to install Up and we'll walk you through the setup process. Our watch app also works standalone over LTE (if you have your eSim enabled).

If you choose not to set up Apple Pay during sign-up, you can still enable Apple Pay within the Card section of the Up menu. Simply tap "Setup Apple Pay". These in-app set up methods for Apple Pay are automated and do not require you to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually.

If you choose to set up Apple Pay via Apple Wallet (from outside of the Up app) you will be required to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually. Therefore the automated methods are recommended.

How do I add my Up card to Google Pay?

Up supports instant in-app activation of Google Pay which means there's no need to wait for your Up plastic card to arrive, Up will simply prompt you to add your card to Google Pay as part of the sign-up process.

If you choose not to set up Google Pay during sign-up, you can still enable Google Pay within the Card section of the Up menu. Simply tap "Setup Google Pay". These in-app set up methods for Google Pay are automated and do not require you to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually.

If you choose to set up Google Pay via Google Pay App (from outside of the Up app) please first make sure your physical card has been activated. You will be required to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually. Therefore the automated methods are recommended.

Does Up support Apple Watch?

We do indeed! If you have an Apple Watch, use the Watch app on your iPhone to install Up and we'll walk you through the setup process. Our watch app also works standalone over LTE (if you have your eSim enabled).

Does Up work well with VoiceOver and TalkBack?

Yep. We aim to make all features easy to use with assistive technologies, Talk to Us if you have any issues with this.

Does Up work across multiple devices?

Yep. You can access and operate your Up account on all of your devices at the same time.

To keep everything running smoothly when switching devices, we’d strongly recommend keeping automatic app updates turned on, and your Up app up to date across your devices.

Can I use Apple Pay with EFTPOS?

Yes you can. To set up Apple Pay with EFTPOS first remove and then re-add your Up card from within the Apple Wallet app.

What about my Up card?

The Up app and your debit card.

What type of card will I get with Up?

By default, you’ll get a digital Zap Card which you can use instantly when you sign up. You can also request a beautiful Mastercard® Debit card, if you want a bit of that plastic action. Up plastic cards can take up to 15-20 business days to arrive, depending on the postal service and your location.

It’s worth noting that if your phone supports Apple Pay or Google Pay, you can add your Zap Card to your digital wallet straight away - you can also instantly access the card details within the Up app.

Can I lock, block, or disable my card?

You can temporarily block any of your Up cards at any time!

To temporarily block your card in-app, head to the Up tab > 'Cards' > Select the card you want to block > toggle 'Card Active' off.

To unblock it, just toggle it back on.

Important note: This switch won’t block the ability to use your card via digital wallets like Apple or Google Pay.

How do I activate my Up card?

Activate your Up card simply by selecting the “Activate Card” prompt within the Activity screen. If the “Activate Card” option is not automatically displayed, you can also activate your Up card in the Card section of the Up menu. Simply tap “Activate Card”.

I've lost my Up card

If you can’t find your card, you should lock it straight away. Head to the Up app, then open the Up menu on the far left. Scroll down to the ‘Cards’ section, and tap on your Up Plastic card. Toggle the ‘Card Active’ switch off to temporarily disable your card.

If you can’t find it anywhere and need a new card, head back to Up > Cards > Up Plastic Card and hit ‘Report card as lost, stolen or damaged’ and follow the prompts.

If your card has been lost and you can't access your App please give us a call on 1300 002 258.

My card was stolen!

If you haven't already, head to the Up tab > Card > Toggle off 'Card active'. This will ensure your card is inactive while it’s not physically with you.

Once you're ready to order a new card, head to Up > Cards > Up Plastic Card and hit ‘Report card as lost, stolen or damaged’ and follow the prompts.

If your card has been stolen and you can't access your App please give us a call on 1300 002 258.

I'm running into issues with my card

Sometimes issues can be with the card itself, but other times, it can be the EFTPOS machine or ATM.

Some basic troubleshooting steps for a declining card are:

Head to Up > Cards and tap on the card you’re having issues with. From there, make sure your card is activated, and ‘Card Active’ is toggled on.
Tap into ‘Configure Card’ and make sure no settings there are blocking your transaction.
If you haven’t already, try your card at a few different places to narrow down the problem.

If you notice that your card continues declining at multiple places and your card controls are all on, it could be an indication that the card is damaged.

If you think that’s the case, head to the Card section of the app, where you'll see the option to report your card as damaged.

Don’t hesitate to reach out via Talk To Us in the Up app if you need a hand at all.

What’s the difference between Zap & Plastic cards?

Here's a blog post we prepared earlier 😉

Okay, but what is a Zap card?

Your Zap card is your digital only card - it gives you a set of card details instantly upon sign up or if you need a new card; meaning you can update any bills or subscriptions right away, without waiting for a new card to be delivered. You don’t need to opt-in to a plastic card unless you want one. Your Zap card works online and in your digital wallet, just like a regular plastic card would!

You can read more about our cards here.

How long do cards take to arrive?

Delivery of Up plastic cards can take up to 15-20 business days, depending on your location and the postal service.

Can I get express delivery on my card? How long does it take?

If you need your card in a hurry, we can express post a card to you!

Some key details:

Cards sent via express delivery generally take 2-5 business days to arrive
They can be sent either via Toll Courier or Express Post (Your choice)
There’s a $15 fee for express posting cards.

Reach out to our Support Team via Talk To Us to arrange an express card delivery.

How do I use card controls?

We offer lots of fine-grained control over how your card works.

Just head to the Up tab > Cards menu > Select the card you want to configure > Configure Card.

From here you can change your ATM withdrawal limit, disable contactless purchases, limit online or overseas transactions and more!

For more info, check out Cards & Controls.

My card has been blocked!

No worries! Just reach out in the app via Talk To Us - we’ll be there to help.

If your card has been blocked and you can't access your App please give us a call on 1300 002 258.

So what about different types of accounts?

The accounts Up has on offer.

What are Up Savers?

You can create Savers in Up for each of your life goals by giving them a name and specifying the amount you would like to save. You can instantly create multiple Savers in seconds by simply tapping the plus button and following the prompts. Once activated by making 5 successful physical or digital card purchases in a calendar month, they earn 4.35% p.a up to a combined balance of $1M. Read the full conditions. Your Up Spending account does not earn interest. You can also enable automatic roundups on one of your Savers. Use the edit function on each Saver to disable or activate roundups.

Does Up support joint accounts?

We sure do. Learn more about 2Up - Joint accounts reimagined.

Does Up have home loans?

Absolutely! We’ve got a whole section of our website dedicated to Up Home, ready to answer all your home loan questions! Just click here to go there and take a peek 👀

So, how do I pay my mates?

Payment types and timeframes.

How do I make a payment from my Up account?

You can make a payment from your Up account to other bank accounts by heading to the Payments tab.

Tap the orange ‘+’ then the ‘Pay Someone’ option - this will show your phone contacts who are with Up, and contacts who you have paid previously.

If you want to enter a BSB & Account Number or a PayID, just tap ‘Create New’ in the top right hand corner and follow the prompts!

How long do payments take with Up?

Up supports PayID and Osko for near-instant payments to and from your Up account. Payments should be processed almost instantly by Up, but processing times may vary depending on security delays and payment rules put in place by the other financial institution and/or whether or not they support Osko. Using the standard “Pay Anyone” capability of traditional banks with BSB and Account Number can take up to 1-3 business days, again depending on the other institutions’ processing times and security delays.

Why are my payments sometimes delayed?

First time transfers to new payees or payments made from new devices may be delayed as a security precaution.

If you need to make abnormally large payments to new payees, we recommend that you plan ahead and use a "scheduled transfer" at a specific point in time in the future.

I made a mistake when making a payment

Our Support team are ready to help with any payment queries - just reach out via Talk To Us with as much detail as possible, and we’ll get back to you ASAP.

Using Up Overseas

Make your trip easy.

How do I use my card overseas?

Your Up card is accepted at more than 47 million Mastercard locations all over the globe, so it makes a great travel companion and means you don’t need a travel-specific card.

Once activated, you can use your Up card just as you do in Australia! Just tap, swipe or insert your card as per usual, and we’ll handle the rest behind the scenes.

To read more about travelling with Up, check out our Travel Easy page 🌴

Can I see my balance in local currency while I'm overseas?

Yep! Travel Mode will automatically switch on when you’re using your card overseas, showing your balance in the local currency and in AUD.

You can also switch it on manually at any time by heading to Up > Travel.

Does Up have a currency converter?

We sure do — you can check out our currency converter at any time by heading to Up > Travel and toggling on ‘Travel Mode’.

What's the exchange rate for overseas card purchases?

We'll automatically convert international transactions from the local currency to AUD using the Mastercard exchange rate, with 0% bank fees (when selecting Mastercard). We’ll also automatically show your balance in the local currency once we detect you’re travelling. If you want to turn this on manually, you can head to Up > Travel and turn on “Travel Mode”. You can check out the exchange rate by heading to Up > Travel in the app, or on the Mastercard currency converter website.

When overseas we'd also recommend paying in the local currency as opposed to AUD when given the choice by the EFTPOS terminal. This lets you take advantage of the great exchange rate you get by being an Upsider, instead of the rate the merchant terminal chooses to give you 😊

Can I buy international currency in advance?

At this stage, you can only hold AUD in your Up account.

When making international transactions, we automatically convert the currency in real time. If you’re travelling and start making transactions, we’ll also automatically show your balance in the local currency in your activity feed.

You can check out the rate that will be applied to international card purchases on the Mastercard currency converter website or in the Up App by heading to Up > Travel.

Do I need to set up your Wise integration to use my card overseas?

There’s no need to set up our Wise integration to use your Up card overseas - your card is always ready to go! Our Wise integration is a quick and easy way to send funds internationally.

If you're keen to get started with Wise, head to the Payments tab, tap the orange (+) button, select ‘International Payments’ and follow the prompts.

You can also check out this page for further information on our partnership with Wise.

I'm having trouble with my card whilst overseas

If you’re running into issues with your card overseas, here’s a rapid-fire checklist of things to try:

If you’re using an iPhone, double click the side button and make sure the switch below your Up card in Apple Pay is set to ‘Mastercard’ not ‘eftpos SAV’ - this is because eftpos SAV only works in Australia.
Head to Up > Cards and make sure your Up Plastic card is activated and unblocked.
Jump into the ‘Configure Card’ menu and make sure you don’t have Overseas transactions set to blocked.
Try your card at a couple of different merchants to narrow down the problem

If that doesn't fix things up, reach out via Talk To Us.

If you can’t access your app or it’s outside our Support hours (6am-midnight, Melbourne time) please give us a call on +61 1300 002 258.

But what about...?

Rapid responses to the most common Up queries.

The Up app won’t accept my identification

Send us an email at support@up.com.au

I don’t have suitable ID

You can’t join Up without valid Australian identification documents.

I’m not 18 years old

That’s ok, but you’ll need to be at least 16 years old to get an Up account.

I have tax obligations in another country

No problems. You’ll just need to be an Australian resident and provide your overseas tax information during sign up.

I’m not an Australian resident

Up is only available to people living in Australia.

I forgot my Up passcode

If you get your Up passcode wrong too many times, you can reset it within the Up app. Make sure you have your Up recovery code handy. Your recovery code was emailed to you when you verified your email address after joining Up.

If you don’t have your recovery code, please follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

If this still doesn't work, please email our Account Recovery Experts with your full legal name & mobile number at support@up.com.au.

I suspect fraudulent activity on my Up account

Call 1300 002 258. You can also temporarily disable your Up card. Simply go to the Up menu and select Card. Then toggle the card switch off.

I need to update my personal information

You can update most of your personal information in-app! Just head to Up > Profile and follow the prompts!

If you run into any issues, reach out via Talk To Us

How can I tell you about my overseas travel plans?

There’s no need to tell us about your travel plans! Up accounts come ready to travel.

I got a new phone

Download the Up app, and follow the prompts to set up your new device.

You can also follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

I changed my mobile number

You can change your mobile number by heading to the Up menu, then tapping on Profile. From there, tap your mobile number and enter your new one. If you run into any dramas, let us know using ‘Talk to Us’ in the Up app.

You can also follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

I lost my phone

Provided you haven't shared your passcode, your funds are safe. Get a new phone, then download the Up app, and follow the prompts to set up your new device.

You can also follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

Why do I get an insecure network error?

From a technical perspective it means that the app cannot negotiate a secure SSL connection to the right server for Up. It can happen when you have a proxy or something that’s getting in the way of the app talking to the Up servers.

What does this mean? Essentially we haven’t been able to verify that your connection is secure and that no one is attempting to decode your app networking traffic while you're using the app. Sometimes this isn't a malicious scenario (eg. company devices/network can have this issue). However, because it's a security related thing, we stop you being able to use the app to protect your data and ours.

Why can’t I link Up with external services?

Up doesn’t use email and password combinations for sharing with external services, keeping access limited to your approved devices. We do offer a Developer API for personal use, and are fully accredited for Open Banking.

Open Banking is an agreed & regulated way for all banks to enable their customers to safely share data with third parties, such as lenders & other budgeting apps. You can read more about Open Banking here.

If a third party is accredited with Open Banking, they'll be listed here 👉 https://www.cdr.gov.au/find-a-provider and you'll be able to share your data with them securely.

Statements?

Our statements are completely paperless! To access your current and previous monthly statements including proof of balance, tap into ‘Statements’ from under the ‘Up’ tab.

I need an interest summary for my tax

Interest summary statements showing all interest earned will show up on July 5, at the beginning of a new financial year. You can find them under Statements from the Up menu.

How do I get my Personal Access Token?

Your Personal Access Token allows you to securely access your personal data. You can read more about it here.

To claim your Personal Access Token, head over to Up > “Data Sharing” > tap the “Personal Access Token” button and follow the prompts.

Make sure you copy the token and store it somewhere safe before you exit out of that part of the app.

If you ever want to revoke your token in the future, you can do it from the same menu!

Can I log in on my computer? Does Up have a web version?

We’re currently a mobile-only product, but we’re continuing to explore alternative interfaces for Upsiders.

Do I need to “log out” of the app?

There’s no need to log out of your app when you’re done - any important action requires that you authenticate yourself first.

If you’re not comfortable with this, we do have a ‘Require Log In’ feature.

You can turn this on in the Up tab > Security > toggle on ‘Require Log In’.

Toggling this on will require you to log into the app upon opening, and automatically ‘lock’ the app after you close it.

Can I apply for an overdraft?

At this stage, we don't offer overdraft facilities on Up accounts.

Anything else

Send us an email at support@up.com.au, or ask us in ‘Talk to Us’ in the Up app (if you’re already an Up customer).

Afterpay

Learn about connecting Up with Afterpay.

How do I connect to Afterpay?

Find an Afterpay payment in your activity and tap the transaction. On the receipt page you'll have the option to connect to Afterpay. This will take you to the Afterpay website where you can login and give Up permission to access your Afterpay payment data.

What does connecting to Afterpay do?

Once you've connected to Afterpay any Afterpay transactions in your activity feed will be updated to show the actual merchant you transacted with. Tapping on a transaction will show the amount and number of payments remaining and most often the items you purchased. In the Upcoming screen we'll show you all your future Afterpay payments and give you a reminder a couple of days out from each payment.

Why do some of my transactions still just show up as Afterpay only?

If you have made all four Afterpay payments before you connect to Afterpay from Up we cannot currently show detailed information for those purchases. We're working to improve this in the future.

What about Afterpay purchases made with other cards?

We only show Afterpay payments initiated with your Up card. If you add your Up card to purchases currently in progress we will show any new payments in Up, but are not able to show these in Upcoming. We're working to improve this in the future.

Complaints, Disputes & Hardship

What you can do if something's not going right

Have a complaint?

While we hope you never get to this point, if you do have a complaint to make, we need to hear it. The best place to start is using "Talk to Us" in the Up app. You can also call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au. We will promptly investigate your complaint and notify you of the outcome. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (see section 21.5 of the Up Terms and Conditions). You can learn more about how we manage complaints here.

Need to dispute a transaction?

If you'd like to dispute a transaction, please let us know the transaction details using "Talk to Us" in the Up app. We will work through our standard dispute process to try and recover your money. Please keep in mind when raising chargebacks we are governed by scheme rules which provide guidelines we must follow for these to be considered valid. In some circumstances, we may need to re-issue your card to prevent additional disputed transactions. If you are unable to dispute a transaction using Talk to Us, you can also call us on 1300 002 258.

Experiencing financial hardship?

Personal circumstances change all the time. This is part of life, even if it is not always easy. We’re here to help. If you’re experiencing financial hardship, there are a number of ways we may be able to assist you. Please reach out in-app via "Talk to Us". You can also call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au.

Additionally, there’s a number of services available to you who may also be able to help:

The National Debt Helpline have easy to use, step-by-step guides on how to tackle debts - ndh.org.au . You can also call the National Debt Helpline on 1800 007 007 to talk to a financial counsellor for free, independent advice about your situation.
Financial Counselling Australia will help you find a financial counselling agency in your area - www.financialcounsellingaustralia.org.au
ASIC’s ‘MoneySmart’ website provides information and tools to help you make the most of your money - www.moneysmart.gov.au
The ABA’s ‘Financial Hardship’ website can help know what to do if you are experiencing financial difficulties, how your bank can help, where to go for more information and how to apply for help - www.ausbanking.org.au/resource/resource.pdf
The CreditSmart website has information on managing debt and hardship assistance - www.creditsmart.org.au/financial-hardship
Experiencing financial abuse?

Financial abuse occurs when one person manipulates another to control their finances and property without their consent. It can happen to anyone, no matter how old, or how much money they have. We recognise that it may be difficult for you to seek assistance. If you feel you're in a financially abusive situation, please do not hesitate to speak to any member of our staff. The best place to start is using "Talk to Us" in the Up app. You can also call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au.

Scams

Keeping yourself and your finances safe from fraud and scams.

I think I'm being scammed!

Firstly, stop and take a deep breath. Then, check out our Scam Self-Defence Guide. Scams often start from a phone call, email, social media or SMS – Our guide is designed to show you how to identify common scams and how to protect yourself.

If you’re ever concerned or unsure, don't hesitate, contact us directly via Talk To Us. Don’t get pressured into making a payment or taking other action in the meantime.

Some additional resources that may be helpful:

Scamwatch - How to spot and avoid scams
IDCare
The Australian Cyber Security Centre

It’s also super important to remember that Up or Bendigo Bank will never ask you to share your Up Passcode or Recovery Code.

Deceased estate, power of attorney & guardianship questions

At Up, we understand that this is a difficult time for you. There are a number of ways we can assist.

Have a deceased estate, power of attorney or guardianship question?

At Up, we understand that this is a difficult time for you. Among all the important things to take care of when a loved one passes away, having to sort through bank matters is another thing to add to the list. If you find yourself in this situation there are a number of ways we may be able to assist you, please get in touch with us by calling on 1300 002 258 or e-mailing us at support@up.com.au.

Closing your account

How to close your account.

Want to close your account?

To close your individual account in-app, head to the Up tab > 'Close Up account' and follow the prompts.

From here, there are a few things to do before your account closure can be finalised. Firstly, you'll need to have a balance of $0 in your Up Spending and Savers accounts. You'll also need to make sure you don't have an active 2Up account (this needs to be closed first, see below for more information) or an active Up Home loan.

To close a 2Up Account, either Player can just head to the 'Up' tab > 'Profiles' > 'Close 2Up Account'. Like your individual account, before the account can be closed, all funds need to be transferred out of the account. If either Player changes their mind, you have 24 hours to cancel the closure.

The in-app prompts will walk you through each step but if you have any questions, just reach out to our friendly Support crew via Talk to us and we'll help you out.

Does Up have joint accounts?

2Up - A new way to join financial forces.

What is 2Up?

No more lists on the fridge or ‘you pay rent and I’ll get the shopping’. 2Up is a simpler way to share expenses. It’s easy to set up and close down, and gives you tools to pay together while keeping your own financial life, completely your own.

Read all about it here.

How do I invite my Player 2?

Tap the 2Up banner on your Up tab to invite your Player 2

If your Player 2 isn’t an Upsider, send them an invite through Hook Up a Mate first.

Can I make a payment with my 2Up? How about direct debits, BPay or Scheduled & Repeating payments?

At release, you will be able to use all the regular Up payment features except payment requests, pay splitting, and International payments.

International payments have to be linked to individual Wise account holders, so you’ll need to use your own Up account for those.

Does this mean my Player 2 sees everything I do?

You will both see every purchase made on your 2Up Spending account, and each purchase will show who bought what. If you contact our Support team, you can choose to both be included in the chat.

And of course, your own Up accounts are completely your own. Neither of you can see, smell or touch the other person’s main Up account.

Can I have two or three accounts? Can I add my whole family?

At this point, 2Up is for two Upsiders only, and each Upsider can be part of one 2Up at a time. Shared accounts (for more than two people) are planned for the future.

So if you had a 2Up with your flatmate you’ll need to shut it down before you make a fresh account with your new Player 2.

What if my Player 2 empties our 2Up and takes off to a tropical island?

You both have full access to spend, transfer or make payments with money in 2Up without requiring permission from each other..

It's important you only join 2Up with someone you know well and trust. Only add money to 2Up you're happy for either of you to spend.

Does Up pay interest on 2Up accounts?

Your 2Up Everyday account is a spending account and does not earn interest. 2Up Savers are eligible to earn bonus interest once unlocked. Purchases made using your 2Up Everyday account contribute to the five transactions needed to unlock bonus interest repayments across both your personal Up Savers and on 2Up Savers. So if between you and your 2Up you make five purchases, you’ll both earn interest on your private Up Savers and 2Up Savers.

At present, Up Savers pay up to 4.35% p.a. for up to $1M in deposits in your Up Savers as well as $1M in your 2Up Savers.

Read the full conditions on our pricing page.

Is it a big deal to close a 2Up?

As soon as your 2Up is empty and all 2Up Savers have been closed, either one of you can close it. Just a few taps and you’re a lone ranger once more.

Slice, Slice, Baby

Slice any purchase or payment with your mates on Up.

What if my mates aren’t all on Up?

First of all, Hook them Up with the world’s snazziest orange banking solution. If they aren’t yet on the Up train, you’ll have to go old school. Cover their share and get your cash in the car park.

What if they don’t pay me back right away?

Up sends repeating requests so you don’t have to. If they keep ignoring those requests, maybe they’re just not a good mate. We’re really sorry, you’re worth more than that. A mate of ours likes to lend $50 to people he never wants to see again and considers it well spent. Hope this sorta helps.

How many people can I slice a bill with?

We’re working with 20 for now. That… should be enough?? Go get it you party animal.

Can I slice 2Up transactions?

Not at the moment. We’re starting with regular-flavoured Up accounts. More awesome tooling is coming as we grow.

What should we get Grandma for her birthday?

Fancy gin, a ridiculously comfy throw that matches her couch, and some quality time cause she loves you and honestly she really just wants to know what you’re up to.

Maybuy, maybuy not

Buy things you actually love, with money you actually have.

Can I put more money towards a Maybuy?

Sure can! To add more money to an active Maybuy, swipe down on your Activity feed for ‘Quick Actions’, then tap ‘Transfer’.

Then, select your Maybuy and transfer your desired amount.

Future scheduled saves will adjust automatically to include your manual top-up.

Do Maybuys earn interest?

Absolutely!

Each Maybuy is its own Saver, so once you’ve activated the bonus rate for the month, you’ll earn interest as you would on any other Saver 💸

Maybuy with my 2Up?

You can absolutely Maybuy with your Player 2 👭

During setup, before locking in ‘amount of saves’, you can ✔️ the ‘save with $Player2’ checkbox and each save will come from your 2Up Spending account.

Can I Maybuy a whole cart from a single store?

That would be pretty awesome. Right now though it’s just individual items.

How many Maybuys can I have?

That depends. Each Maybuy is its own Saver, and you can have a total of 50 Savers with Up.

So, just as an example, say you already had 15 Savers, you’d be able to create 35 Maybuys before you maxed out at 50 💪

What if the item was sold out or a different price when I was ready to buy?

Maybuys don’t reserve or purchase the item for you like a Buy Now Pay Later service would. (But also nobody but you has your money). Think of Maybuy as a Saver, with the primary focus on helping you save for something on your own terms, with your own funds.

Locked Savers

Remove the weight of self‑control.

Can I lock a 2Up Saver?

You sure can! Either Player can lock or unlock 2Up Locked Savers 🔐

Does a locked Saver earn interest?

Sure does!

Once you’ve activated the bonus interest rate, a locked Saver will earn interest like any other Saver 💪

How many Savers can I lock?

There’s no limit to the amount of Savers you can lock down.

You can have a maximum of 50 active Savers, all of which can be locked 🔒

Can I still use Auto Transfers?

Auto-transfers in and out of a locked Saver are absolutely possible, but there are a few limitations.

Firstly, you can’t set up a new Auto-transfer in or out without unlocking it first 🔓

If you set up an Auto-transfer before locking a Saver, it’ll continue to be scheduled as usual 💪

Changing the date & amount of an Auto Transfer while a Saver is locked isn’t possible, but you can pause or delete it if need be. However, if you’ve paused it, you’ll need to unlock the Saver to make changes again.

What if I ask a friend for faster access and they don't respond?

Good question.

If your nominated Upsider doesn’t respond to your request to unlock the Saver early, you’ll need to wait for the 3 hours to elapse.

Save Up 1000

Now is your time to shine. Saving $1,000 in a year is your challenge and Up is on your team.

What if I have a big week and I can't save anything?

You can change up this challenge, switching between big saving weeks, little weeks, and the odd mini break when you need it. Mum would say it's a marathon not a sprint and she's pretty wise. Cut yourself some slack and start again.

How does Save Up 1000 work with mates?

Turn on social sharing (on by default) to let your contacts on Up see you’re in the challenge. Who’ll level up first? Let's find out. We'll also add you to a Class so you can track yourself against other anonymous Upsiders.

Or turn it off to play this game on your own, cause your dreams don't have to be for anyone but you.

What should I save up for?

$1000 could be your first emergency fund; return tickets to Bali; the foster doggo you've always wanted (with accessories) or the start of a lifetime savings habit. Who knows? The sky's the limit so go forth you good thing and save.

(If you get a puppy please send pics).

Happy Hour

Pay on Up for a chance to win cash back on your end of week food & drinks.

Can I play Happy Hour more than once?

Your first eligible purchase ($10 or more) made between 5-7pm on a Friday will go into the draw to be selected for a chance to play. Happy Hour runs every Friday 5-7pm, so you can enter once every week!

My favourite spot is not in the ‘Restaurants & Cafes’ or ‘Pubs & Bars’ category

If the merchant isn’t yet to be identified, you can identify them in-app by tapping into the purchase. If they’re already identified but don’t fall under the eligible categories, shoot our Support team a message in-app and they’ll take a look to see if we can help.

How old do I need to be to play?

Happy Hour is open to all Upsiders, 16 years and over.

Do my mates need to be on Up to boost my potential prize?

Nope! Any of your mates can boost your potential prize by scanning your QR code. Make sure you let them know that after they give you a boost, they can get a $10 gift if they sign up with Up.

I missed my Happy Hour notification! Now what?

Dang! If you’ve missed your Happy Hour notification, you’ll have to try again next Friday between 5-7pm. Keep your eyes peeled.

Can I opt out of Happy Hour forever?

Yep! Just shoot our Support team a message in-app via the Talk to Us tab and they’ll sort that out for you.

Unable to access the Up app?

The fastest way to get access to your account is to read our account recovery guide. If you're still having trouble, email our Account Recovery Experts with your full legal name & mobile number at support@up.com.au.

National Relay Service

Users who are deaf or have hearing or speech impairment can call through the National Relay Service:

TTY: users phone 133 677 then ask for 1300 002 258
Internet relay: users connect to the National Relay Service and then ask for 1300 002 258
Speak and Listen (speech-to-speech relay): users connect to the National Relay Service and then ask for 1300 002 258
Card lost or stolen?

For your protection please give us a call on 1300 002 258 as soon as possible to let us know your card has been lost or stolen or if you’re seeing unauthorised charges on your account. If you're overseas, please use +61 1300 002 258.

=== fcs_.txt ===

Financial Claims Scheme

Money held in your Up Everyday Account or Up Savers accounts are deposits with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited and count up to the FCS limit that applies together with any other deposits you have with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited.

What is the Financial Claims Scheme?

The Financial Claims Scheme (FCS) is an Australian Government scheme that provides protection and quick access to deposits in banks, building societies and credit unions in the unlikely event that one of these financial institutions fails.

Under the FCS, certain deposits are protected up to a limit of $250,000 for each account holder at any bank, building society, credit union or other authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI) that is incorporated in Australia and authorised by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA).

The FCS can only come into effect if it is activated by the Australian Government when an institution fails. Once activated, the FCS will be administered by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA).

In an FCS scenario, APRA would aim to pay the majority of customers their protected deposits under the Scheme within seven calendar days.

How is the FCS limit applied?

The FCS limit of $250,000 applies to the sum of an account holder’s deposits held with a single banking institution.

Therefore, all deposits held by an account holder with a single banking institution must be added together towards the $250,000 FCS limit, and this includes accounts with any other banking businesses that the licenced banking institution may operate under a different trading name.

Money held in your Up Everyday Account or Up Savers accounts are deposits with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited and count up to the FCS limit that applies together with any other deposits you have with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited’s network of brands and joint ventures provide a wide range of products and services, and those that are covered by the FCS are Bendigo Bank, Adelaide Bank, Community Bank, Rural Bank, and Up Bank. Therefore, the $250,000 limit will apply to the aggregate balance of any eligible accounts held across these brands and joint ventures.

Where can I get further information on the FCS?

Further information on the FCS is available on the FCS website. The APRA website also contains a list of FAQ’s relating to banking.

=== features_budget-trackers_.txt ===

FEATURES: BUDGET TRACKERS

Cruise Into Controlling
Your Spending

Set an Up Tracker on any spending category to keep your spending steady.

Maybe you want to get financially fit by toning down the Takeaway, or train yourself to stick to a monthly Clothing limit. Trackers are a quick and easy way to set a spending limit, keep on top of it and know how long you've got to go.

Set multiple Trackers to spend less time busting the budget and more time living the dream.

Get your Spending in Shape with Trackers

Did you know your spending on Up gets automatically categorised into one of 40 categories? Pick one you want to keep an eye on, chuck on a Tracker to set yourself an upper spend limit and check your progress through the month..

One budget, one place. Be proactive and check all your Trackers in Monthly Insights or with a Tracker widget. Alternatively... try a laid back approach 😎 We'll take the wheel and flick you your new Tracker news with notifications throughout the month.

Get Cracking,
Start Tracking
Health Check Your Spending

Know where to give a little and where to get a little. Even without a Tracker you can check your average spend for your spending categories. See how your current month’s spending compares to your monthly average. Now, what should it be?

Add a Tracker to a Category

See something that could use some extra attention? Add a Tracker to any spending category and set a spending limit. You’ll always know much you have left and how long to make it last. The countdown is on.

Tons of Trackers

Multiple Trackers add up to a balanced healthy budget. With a few different Trackers hanging out in your Monthly Insights you can always keep tabs on where you’re spending too hard, or not hard enough. Your coin counting command centre awaits.

Set, But Never Forget

There’s plenty of living to be done outside the app 🏝 With Notifications and Tracker Widget updates we’ll let you know if your budget is bound for glory or if you need to pump the brakes on a spending category before the month is out.

Your Personalised Financial Coach

We're cheering you on from the sidelines. Get notifications throughout the month with personalised updates on how your Trackers are…tracking.

Know when you've started strong, if you need to pace yourself a bit, or if we need to do one last squeeze to make it through the month. We'll ping you with how many days and dollars you have left to go!

Stress less, take baby steps. We won't put you on blast for a budget blow out.

Let Zap Take the Heat

Track your spending without opening the app. Add a Tracker Widget to your phone's home screen to see your spending through the eyes of your best triangular tracking pal.

Based on where you're at in the month, Zap will give you a visual update on how you’re Tracking. The 5 stages of spending start at "Cosmic Chill" and range to "Budget Blowout". See how Zap's feeling and how much you've got left to spend for every Tracker.

Wear It On Your Sleeve

Face it, this is something you'll want to Watch.

For those times when you're too in the moment to even pick up a phone you can add any of your Trackers as a complication to your Apple Watch faces on WatchOS.

Keeping your favourite Trackers glanceable means your budget will never miss a beat.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_cards_.txt ===

Cards with benefits

Up and 2Up accounts come perfectly un-packaged, with a 100% plastic free Zap Digital Card that’s ready to use right away along with the option of a plastic card sent in the mail.

Zap Card.

Your Zap card is wired directly to your Up or 2Up account, perfect for buying and bill paying online, or charging up your Apple Pay, Google Pay or digital wallet of choice. No muss no fuss, no waiting for the postie. It’s ready to go.

If you do need a physical card, just order in-app and it’s yours. You’ll get a second card number and a card you can use to travel or withdraw cash from ATM’s.

Card Details in Hand

Get your card numbers instantly in-app. It’s easy and secure to access your card number, expiry and CVC.

Making a quick buy online? Copy and paste to make sure you never enter payment details incorrectly again.

Zap Card gives you these instantly upon sign‑up.

Card Controls
Disable And Enable Your Card

False alarm? Not. A. Problem. Disable and enable your card with one tap just in case you don’t find your card wedged between the couch pillows.

Change Your Pin

Reassess your chosen PIN at any time. No need to head to an ATM. If your PIN gets found out, simple, just change it.

Configure Your Card For Max Safety

Enable or disable ATM cash withdrawals, online or in-store purchases in Australia and overseas, and contactless payments in just a few taps.

Report Card Lost, Stolen Or Damaged

Go ahead and grab that extra piece of mind. If your card should become misplaced or stolen you can cancel and order yourself a new one in seconds.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_covers-and-forwards_.txt ===

FEATURE: COVERS & FORWARDS

Keep Your Budget Balanced

Covers & Forwards give you two tiny, yet mighty ways to keep your budget balanced: moving money to and from your Savers.

Whether you’re trying to stick to a household budget, or turbo-boost your savings, Covers & Forwards can help.

1. Set Up Your Savers

Let’s say you told the fam you’d organise Grandma’s birthday cake and presents. Fire up a Saver for “Grandma’s 90th” with a target of $500. Being 90 she’s got a lot of friends.

2. Forward Those Funds

As the payments roll in, long press on each transaction in your Activity feed to “Forward” that amount. A list of your Savers will appear, and you can shoot those $$ straight into your “Grandma’s 90th” Saver for safe keeping.

That way, money isn’t hanging around in your main balance pretending to be yours. And you can see how much you’ve got for Granny at a glance.

3. Spend It Up

Yes! After weeks of searching for the perfect cake, you’ve found the one.

You pay for the cake, but that money has come out of your main account instead of the Saver you set up.

Things are out of kilter - you’re out of pocket, and your “Grandma’s 90th Saver” is still full. Let’s Cover that purchase to restore balance!

4. Cover To Balance

Just like Forwarding, long press on the purchase notification. Now you can Cover the charge from your “Grandma’s 90th” Saver.

The exact amount of your purchase will be transfered from the Saver, back into your main account. Your balance, and your personal equilibrium, are restored.

5. Always Know Where You're At

Once you’ve covered or forwarded, the details of what you’ve covered or forwarded are shown both in your Activity feed as well as the Saver you’ve forwarded to or covered from, making it easy to see where you spent that money.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_home-savers_.txt ===

FEATURE: HOME DEPOSIT SAVER

Save For A Home
Deposit With Up

Want your own place someday? A Home Deposit Saver will show you where you’re at, how much you need, and how long it will take to save.

Play around to see how different choices can speed up your saving.

Everything else works like a normal Saver.

Know What You Really Need

A Home Deposit Saver will help you factor in the extra costs involved in buying a house. Build your way forward with one easy-to-see goal. And with Up’s bonus content, you’ll be learning more about home buying while you save.

Take Everything Into Account

A Home Deposit Saver lets you see everything you’ve got to put towards a home. Mum can kick in a bit? Great! Got a few shares you’ll sell before you buy? Bonus. Tell us about it and we’ll work it all into your personal savings timeline.

🏠
Get There Your Way

Whether you’re saving solo or as a 2Up, Up gives you the tools you need for speed. Make regular payments and Round Ups towards your deposit. Play around to see how saving more, or buying a different home style, could change your timeline.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_international-payments_.txt ===

FEATURE: INTERNATIONAL PAYMENTS

International Money Transfers
with Wise.

Get your money where it needs to be, hassle-free. Up has partnered with Wise to give you one of the fastest and cheapest ways to send money overseas.

Easily move money directly from your Up account into your Wise account and from there into 48 different currencies.

But Don’t Just Believe Us, Do A Comparison

Old-school transfers go through several banks, and each of them adds a fee. You might be able to see what that fee is in advance… but then again, you might not. Sometimes the fee is even hidden in an 'exchange rate', which seems less than cool to us.

Wise charges you the real exchange rate plus one small, transparent charge; there is no additional fee for using Wise through Up.

International transfer comparison quote details

Amount you want to send in Australian dollar’s

YOU SEND in Australian dollar’s

Select currency:

AUD

Amount your recipient will receive in British pound’s

RECIPIENT GETS in British pound’s

Select currency:

GBP

Popular currencies

EUREuro

GBPBritish pound

INRIndian rupee

NZDNew Zealand dollar

USDUnited States dollar

All currencies

AEDUnited Arab Emirates dirham

ARSArgentine peso

BDTBangladeshi taka

BGNBulgarian lev

BRLBrazilian real

CADCanadian dollar

CHFSwiss franc

CLPChilean peso

CNYChinese yuan

COPColombian peso

CRCCosta Rican colón

CZKCzech koruna

DKKDanish krone

EGPEgyptian pound

GELGeorgian lari

GHSGhanaian cedi

GTQGuatemalan quetzal

HKDHong Kong dollar

HRKCroatian kuna

HUFHungarian forint

IDRIndonesian rupiah

ILSIsraeli shekel

JPYJapanese yen

KESKenyan shilling

KRWSouth Korean won

LKRSri Lankan rupee

MADMoroccan dirham

MXNMexican peso

MYRMalaysian ringgit

NGNNigerian naira

NOKNorwegian krone

NPRNepalese rupee

PHPPhilippine peso

PKRPakistani rupee

PLNPolish złoty

RONRomanian leu

RUBRussian rouble

SEKSwedish krona

SGDSingapore dollar

THBThai baht

TRYTurkish lira

TZSTanzanian shilling

UAHUkrainian hryvnia

UGXUgandan shilling

UYUUruguayan peso

VNDVietnamese dong

XOFWest African CFA franc

ZARSouth African rand

You could saveup to $38.47AUD

When sending 250 AUD with Wise, your recipient would receive 123.91 GBP, with a transfer fee of 2.24 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.500141.

When sending 250 AUD with Instarem, your recipient would receive 123.68 GBP, with a transfer fee of 2.625 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4999590513.

When sending 250 AUD with Remitly, your recipient would receive 123.65 GBP, with a transfer fee of 1.99 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4985807473.

When sending 250 AUD with Western Union, your recipient would receive 122.65 GBP, with a transfer fee of 2.99 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4965193997.

When sending 250 AUD with WorldRemit, your recipient would receive 122.07 GBP, with a transfer fee of 1.99 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4921855604.

When sending 250 AUD with National Australia Bank, your recipient would receive 121.86 GBP, with a transfer fee of 0 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.487423094.

When sending 250 AUD with Commonwealth Bank of Australia, your recipient would receive 119.61 GBP, with a transfer fee of 0 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.478454341.

When sending 250 AUD with Moneygram, your recipient would receive 117.48 GBP, with a transfer fee of 2.99 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4755894103.

When sending 250 AUD with PayPal, your recipient would receive 116.23 GBP, with a transfer fee of 5.99 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4763199051.

When sending 250 AUD with ANZ, your recipient would receive 115.95 GBP, with a transfer fee of 9 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4811.

When sending 250 AUD with OFX, your recipient would receive 115.73 GBP, with a transfer fee of 15 AUD, at an exchange rate of 0.4924808532.

SENDING 250.00 AUD WITH	RECIPIENT GETStotal after fees	TRANSFER FEE	RATE

	

Sending

250.00 AUD

	

Recipient gets

123.91 GBP

	

Transfer fee

2.24 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.50


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

123.68 GBP

	

Transfer fee

2.63 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.50


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

123.65 GBP

	

Transfer fee

1.99 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.50


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

122.65 GBP

	

Transfer fee

2.99 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.50


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

122.07 GBP

	

Transfer fee

1.99 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.49


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

121.86 GBP

	

Transfer fee

0.00 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.49


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

119.61 GBP

	

Transfer fee

0.00 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.48


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

117.48 GBP

	

Transfer fee

2.99 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.48


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

116.23 GBP

	

Transfer fee

5.99 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.48


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

115.95 GBP

	

Transfer fee

9.00 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.48


	

Sending

250 AUD

	

Recipient gets

115.73 GBP

	

Transfer fee

15.00 AUD

	

Exchange rate

0.49

The data supplied in the comparisons above was supplied by Wise on 5/2/2025 through their Comparison API. Their Comparison disclaimer applies to the information and calculations shown. Fees and rates shown are estimates only.

How does Wise collect this data? You can read the small print here.

We base our price comparisons on data that TransferWise collects from other providers’ websites, on specific dates. Some providers don’t make their fees and exchange rates publicly available. In those cases, TransferWise use their service for bank-to-bank transfers - just as if they were customers - right until the point of paying. They do this multiple times, entering different amounts of money.

The comparison table shows how much it costs a customer to send money internationally, between the currencies specified, using each of the providers listed. It also shows the amount the recipient gets at the end of the process.

In case you want to know more, here's what all the different bits of this comparison table mean - and how it's worked out.

1. The transfer fee

The ‘transfer fee’ is simply how much the provider says it costs to use their service online. TransferWise only compares costs for online transfers from bank to bank. Telephone banking, paying from a branch or paying for a transfer via credit card are usually more expensive.

2. The exchange rate

The ‘exchange rate’ represents the estimated exchange rate for each provider. It isn’t the exact exchange rate TransferWise saw on the day that they used that provider’s service. It wouldn’t be fair to providers to show these collected rates - simply because TransferWise didn't collect all of the listed data at exactly the same time. Instead, they estimated what each provider’s exchange rate would be right now. Here’s how they work out that estimate.

First, work out the markup on each provider’s exchange rate.

To do this, TransferWise record the exchange rate each provider is offering on their website. At the same time, they check the mid-market rate from Reuters. Then, they calculate the difference between those two figures. For instance, if a provider’s rate was 1.4, and the mid-market rate on Reuters was 1.6, they’d record a difference of 0.2 (12.5%). They call this difference the ‘markup’.

Then, subtract each provider’s markup from the mid-market rate

When you see the comparison table - which might be on the same day for most providers, but could be later for others - TransferWise check the mid-market rate from Reuters again. Then, they estimate each provider’s exchange rate by subtracting their markup they previously recorded, from the latest mid-market rate. Using our last example, if the mid-market rate has moved to 2.0 when you see the table, they’d show that particular provider’s exchange rate as 1.75. That’s because TransferWise recorded their markup as 12.5%.

3. How TransferWise work out a comparison for exact amounts that they haven’t collected

When TransferWise collect data from providers, they do it using different “amounts”. So, pretending they're a customer again, they might go through the transfer process with $100, $500 and $2000. What that means, is that for some providers, the amount(s) entered when TransferWise used their service might not be the same as the one you’ve just seen in the comparison table.

This is important, because providers tend to offer better exchange rates and smaller transfer fees when a customer is moving larger sums of money. So where TransferWise haven’t collected data on the exact amount shown in the comparison table - they make sure they’re fair to other providers, by looking at the nearest amounts that they’ve got data for (e.g. just greater or smaller than the amount in the table). And when you see the table, they’re showing the cheapest transfer fee and best exchange rate found from these nearest amounts.

What all this means for you

This means that the ‘transfer fee’ and ‘rate’ you see in the comparison table might be slightly different to the ones each provider currently has on their website. In fact, the comparison table might show a better transfer fee and a better exchange rate for all the providers.

You can find the names of the providers, the “amounts” that TransferWise checked and the dates and times of data collection below:

Provider	Currency Route	Amount Checked	Date And Time Collected
OFX	AUD to GBP	1.40 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	99.99 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	524.63 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	1047.86 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	1571.09 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	2094.31 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	2617.54 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	3140.77 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
OFX	AUD to GBP	3664.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:13 UTC
Moneygram	AUD to GBP	1.00 AUD	4 Feb 2025 15:08 UTC
Moneygram	AUD to GBP	100.00 AUD	4 Feb 2025 15:09 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	1.40 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	5.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	10.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	15.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	2572.63 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	5143.86 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	7715.09 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	10286.30 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	12857.50 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	15428.80 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
Wise	AUD to GBP	18000.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:01 UTC
WorldRemit	AUD to GBP	50.00 AUD	1 Feb 2025 4:56 UTC
WorldRemit	AUD to GBP	98.88 AUD	1 Feb 2025 4:56 UTC
Commonwealth Bank of Australia	AUD to GBP	500.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:10 UTC
Western Union	AUD to GBP	500.00 AUD	4 Feb 2025 9:03 UTC
ANZ	AUD to GBP	5.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:00 UTC
ANZ	AUD to GBP	10.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:00 UTC
ANZ	AUD to GBP	50.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:00 UTC
ANZ	AUD to GBP	99.99 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:00 UTC
ANZ	AUD to GBP	100.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:00 UTC
ANZ	AUD to GBP	500.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 1:00 UTC
National Australia Bank	AUD to GBP	400.00 AUD	5 Feb 2025 0:20 UTC
Smash Nasty Surprises

Wise tells us exactly what each transfer will cost, and we show you this price in real time. You’ll know exactly how much it’ll cost you to shout your mates in London a pizza, or pay that Hungarian freelance designer. Before you press Send.

You'll even get an estimated time of delivery. Knowledge is power.

Set It Up
Fast
Make A Wise Account

Let’s make this easy. When you start an international payment we’ll create a Wise account for you using your Up account info. If you’re a Wise pro, just sign in and you’re set. Don’t sweat the petty.

Choose A Currency To Send In

Pounds, Yen, Rupees or Ringgit? The gang is all here. Make your selection from up to 48 currencies.

Tell Us How Much To Send

Punch in the amount you’d like to send and watch it convert before your very eyes. You’ll see the cost in AUD and your recipient’s currency, as well as estimated arrival date and the small one‑off charge.

Tell Us Where To Send It

Of course you’re prepared and have your buddy’s account details ready. Enter in all their details so this payment can get to where it needs to go.

Send It With Love

Add a short and simple message to your Transaction. From 'Thanks friend' to 'Auntie Jan’s Birthday', a little goes a long way.

Wise has excellent exchange rates and it’s amazing that I can send money from Australia to Europe and the recipient receives the money within 2‑3 hours. I’ve used to pay $22 for international transfer fee through my bank and it took days for the money to go through.

Trustpilot review by B Tavali

Safety First

We have fun. But we keep it safe. Up loves Wise because they have bank level safeguarding, and geek out on data security just like we do.

8 million customers use Wise and they move millions of dollars around the world every day.

We both operate under strict Australian regulations.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_maybuy_.txt ===

Buy things you actually love,
with money you actually have.
Save Now,
Maybuy Later.

Fresh new PJs and PS5s. New releases and once-in-a-lifetime gigs. The world is full of amazing stuff! But it’s no fun to look back with regret on the less great stuff we bought in the rush of a sale or a late night scroll.

Welcome to Maybuy. A new place to save the things you crave and save up for them too.

Don’t buy it.
Maybuy it.

When you find something you love online, hit the share button and add it to Up. Close tab in confidence: we’ll keep your dream safe.

Then pick a savings schedule that suits you. We’ll show you how much you’ll put away with each save, and when you’ll be done. Play with your Maybuy till it feels right for you.

When you make your first save, Up will schedule the rest.

Keep your eyes
on the prize

Maybuys that you’ve set up live in the Savers screen of your Up app. Whenever you’d like to feel that warm fuzzy savings hug, you can check in on your progress, and see your upcoming saves.

Bask in the light of your Maybuy treasures, and nix anything that looks a bit less great now you’ve had a chance to think about it.

Maybuy.
Maybuy not

When you’re all saved up for that PS5 or new parka, go buy it guilt free! But if your plans change, or you need those dollarydoos for something else, just pause or cancel your Maybuy. Cancelled Maybuy savings will return safely to your Spending account.

Regrets are for Vegas, not your bank account.

What we’re
Maybuyin'

Let’s take a look at what our mates are Maybuying this month. Sharing is caring, right?

JADE ZOE
PRESS CLUB
SHAMELESS
FUNNY BUSINESS
MAGGIE ZHOU
AURELIA ST CLAIR
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
JADE ZOE •
MAYBUY MAKES SAVING EASY AND FUN.

Triple J presenter, DJ & dead set legend.

PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
PRESS CLUB •
THE SHORTEST WAY TO THE TOP IF YOU WANNA ROCK 'N' ROLL'

One band, four rockstars & fully-fledged road dogs.

SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
SHAMELESS •
THE BREEZIEST WAY TO SAVE FOR STUFF IN OUR WISHLISTS

Podcasters, pop-culture aficionados & creatives.

FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
FUNNY BUSINESS •
MAYBUY HAS ROCKED OUR WORLD, IT’S SIMPLE AS.

Podcasters, professional banterologists & leopard print lovers.

MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
MAGGIE ZHOU •
SAVING FOR STUFF NEVER FELT SO GOOD

Writer, fast talker & Miffy enthusiast.

AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
AURELIA ST CLAIR •
MAKES TREATING MYSELF EASY AND BUDGET FRIENDLY

Writer, comedic genius & all-round awesome human.

Will you buy or
will you save?

Here's what the rest of the Upsider community have done, based on all completed Maybuys so far:

Questions?
Can I put more money towards a Maybuy?

Sure can! To add more money to an active Maybuy, swipe down on your Activity feed for ‘Quick Actions’, then tap ‘Transfer’.

Then, select your Maybuy and transfer your desired amount.

Future scheduled saves will adjust automatically to include your manual top-up.

Do Maybuys earn interest?

Absolutely!

Each Maybuy is its own Saver, so once you’ve activated the bonus rate for the month, you’ll earn interest as you would on any other Saver 💸

Maybuy with my 2Up?

You can absolutely Maybuy with your Player 2 👭

During setup, before locking in ‘amount of saves’, you can ✔️ the ‘save with $Player2’ checkbox and each save will come from your 2Up Spending account.

Can I Maybuy a whole cart from a single store?

That would be pretty awesome. Right now though it’s just individual items.

How many Maybuys can I have?

That depends. Each Maybuy is its own Saver, and you can have a total of 50 Savers with Up.

So, just as an example, say you already had 15 Savers, you’d be able to create 35 Maybuys before you maxed out at 50 💪

What if the item was sold out or a different price when I was ready to buy?

Maybuys don’t reserve or purchase the item for you like a Buy Now Pay Later service would. (But also nobody but you has your money). Think of Maybuy as a Saver, with the primary focus on helping you save for something on your own terms, with your own funds.

=== features_pay-day_.txt ===

FEATURES: PAY DAY

Breeze Between
Pay Days

Pay day is a great day. But what if every day could feel as great?

Set up Pay Day and always see what you can safely spend while making sure you have enough money left for your Upcoming bills and budgets.

Leave living pay-to-pay behind. Get your pay pumped into Up and see your financial life through your pay cycle.

Keep on top with what you’ve got.

Now available for 2Up.

Switch to spendable balance

Spendable balance is your financial safety net, an in-app smart switcher built into your Activity feed which enables you to switch between your ‘Available’ (the funds in your spending account) and your ‘Spendable’ balance (the funds in your spending account minus your upcoming expenses). In other words, Spendable balance shows you the amount you can safely spend before your next pay day.

Looking after future you

Spendable balance does the maths and calculates exactly how much you’ll need to care of your Upcoming bills until your next pay day. It also now considers all of your future upcoming bills. Enabling Spendable Balance will set aside and reserve cash each pay cycle for future upcoming bills, storing away a little bit extra to take care of those bigger bills you have waiting for you in a few months time so you won’t get caught off guard.

See what’s Upcoming, One Pay at a Time

Set up Pay Day and pay all of your Upcoming bills through Up for total pay cheque to pay cheque clarity.

See exactly what bills and transfers are are due between the days you get paid. Switch your expected charge balance from monthly to ‘pay cycle’ to always keep on top of your most important commitments.

With your bills taken care of you’re left to relax and wait for Pay Day to roll in again.

Learn how Upcoming Bills works
Set Up
Pay Day
Get Paid Into Up

Have a chat to your employer and get your salary sent straight in, or pay yourself regularly from another account into Up.

Set Up Your Pay Day

Let us know exactly when your pay day rolls around. Add your pay day from the Upcoming screen in the app.

Pay Your Bills Through Up

When you use Up to pay your bills or make regular payments like rego or rent, we’ll detect it and add it to your Upcoming list. With Pay Day enabled, your Upcoming list bends to fit your schedule so you can easily see what's due before your next pay day.

Switch To Spendable Balance

With your Pay Day set up and upcoming bills understood, we can let you know how much of your balance you can actually spend before you’re next paid.

Keep your budget precise from pay to pay

Now that your Pay is getting deposited into Up, fly between pay days with some extra tools to keep you financially fit.

Pay Splitting lets you carve up your pay into a bunch of different Savers as soon as it hits your account, and before you get a chance to spend it.

Use Trackers on any spending category to keep your spending steady through out the month. Set a spending limit, keep on top of it and know how long you've got to go.

Cruise Into Controlling Your Spending

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_pay-splitting_.txt ===

FEATURE: PAY SPLITTING

Save on auto-pilot
with Pay Splitting

Pay Splitting lets you carve up your pay into a bunch of different Savers as soon as it hits your account, and before you get a chance to spend it. An easier way to stockpile for your lifestyle.

Whether you're paid the same amount each time or not, you can instantly carve up your payday cash and choose your own savings adventure.

Select Your Salary

When you're paid, head to the Payments tab and identify the transaction as your pay or salary. Once that's done, you'll be able to setup Split Payments. If you have more than one source of income, you’ll need to do this for each place you're paid from.

Set Up Your Splits

Choose an exact dollar amount or use the sliders to divvy up your incoming payments into your Savers, from as little to as much as you want. Ultimate control at your fingertips.

Learn More About Savers
Clarity On Your Payments

The next time you're paid, we'll take care of fixed amounts first, then divide the remainder using the percentages you've set. Your Activity feed will show you exactly what’s happened when your pay was deposited and it'll be automatically moved into your Savers at the percentages you chose.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_round-ups_.txt ===

FEATURES: ROUND UPS

Turn Your Cents
Into Centuries

Get into a good savings habit without even trying. Round Ups take your purchases and kicks them up to the nearest dollar, putting those extra cents into the Saver of your choice.

Round Ups In Action

Say you buy something worth $4.50. There’s a perfectly good 50 cents left in that last dollar. When you’ve got Round Ups turned on, we’ll send that 50 cents over to the Saver of your choice and make the total charge an even $5.00. Before you know it, you’ll have set aside some serious coin.

If you’re not content just to round up to the nearest buck like a mere mortal, you can go further and increase the amount. A seriously effortless way to save.

Rounded Up
And Counting.


Here’s what Upsiders have saved using Round Ups so far! Epic.

$71,000,000+
How Up Helps You
Round Up
The Choice Is Yours

If you have more than one Saver, choose which you want to shoot your Round Ups into.

Turn Them On With One Tap

When enabled, Round Ups automatically send the remainder of your dollar into any of your Savers.

Even Dollar Round Ups

Toggle on even dollar purchases to round up your purchases to the next whole dollar. Whole dollar purchases are not exempt, just more opportunity to easily stash a bit of cash.

Add A Boost!

Want to save more than just a few cents per transaction? Boost your Round Ups by up to $10 and smash your savings goals super quick.

Keep track of your Round Ups on your receipts

To make it crystal clear where you've sent your money, every rounded up purchase you make has a convenient summary showing your Round Up, your boosted amount and the total amount saved. Too easy.

Pull to save ‑ Real fun and real savings

As well as rounding up when you buy something, give your activity screen a mighty downwards pull to send your excess cents flying sky high and straight into your Round Up Saver. Your available balance is now a satisfyingly round number AND you saved some money. Win win.

Rounding up dollars and splitting paychecks into spending/saving accounts are genius. Up is genuinely everything you needed in a banking app, and makes saving fun.

App store review by luwoah

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_save-up-1000_.txt ===

Never saved $1000?

Now is your time to shine so come on down. Save $1000 in a year with the Save Up Challenge.

Lock away a little each week, and in a year you’ll save a lot.

How it works

Dream of having a grand on hand? Save Up $1000 will help you get there by setting a simple weekly savings challenge.

Each week you’ll pick one of a few amounts to save. Some big. Some small. We’ll stash your cash safely away so it will stack up (though if you need it, that’s OK: just close your Challenge).

Head to your Savers and click to join Save Up $1000.

Pick your first amount to save. Go in strong or steady.

Tap to succeed. Level up as you go, and grab a rest week when you need it.

Challenge your mates and cheer each other on to savings celebration.

Join other Upsiders taking the challenge
69333

Join in the same week as your mates and cheer each other on. Or take this challenge solo. Outwit impulse spending. Outplay distraction. You’re made of steel and ready to complete this challenge.

Take the Save Up 1000 challenge
The Big Questions
What if I have a big week and I can't save anything?

You can change up this challenge, switching between big saving weeks, little weeks, and the odd mini break when you need it. Mum would say it's a marathon not a sprint and she's pretty wise. Cut yourself some slack and start again.

How does Save Up 1000 work with mates?

Turn on social sharing (on by default) to let your contacts on Up see you’re in the challenge. Who’ll level up first? Let's find out. We'll also add you to a Class so you can track yourself against other anonymous Upsiders.

Or turn it off to play this game on your own, cause your dreams don't have to be for anyone but you.

What should I save up for?

$1000 could be your first emergency fund; return tickets to Bali; the foster doggo you've always wanted (with accessories) or the start of a lifetime savings habit. Who knows? The sky's the limit so go forth you good thing and save.

(If you get a puppy please send pics).

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 

=== features_savers_.txt ===

FEATURES: SAVERS

Map Out And Nail
Your Money Goals

Instantly create Savers to help you get ahead of your goals, commitments, bills, a home ...whatever! Whether you're saving solo or with a second player, get there faster using Round Ups, Savings Boosts, Auto Transfers and Pay Splitting.

Get ahead on your savings with Save Up 1000 and, once activated by making 5 purchases each month, you’ll earn up to 4.35% p.a.* across your Savers up to a combined balance of $1M.

*Conditions apply
Create Your
Savers Today
Name It. Give It An Emoji 💸🏝

Bestow a name upon your Saver and assign it a recognisable emoji. A picture is worth 1,000 words.

Set A Savings Goal

Have a specific amount in mind? Add a custom goal for each of your Savers. You’ll always be able to see how far you’ve got to go to achieve your savings goals.

Automate Your Savings

Life is too short for manual work. Schedule Automatic Transfers to or from your Savers down to the minute, every week, fortnight, or month. The easiest heavy lifting you’ll ever do.

Turbo‑Charge Your Savings

Pick a Saver and give it a boost using Round Ups. Watch your Savings grow while you spend.

Save your first $1000

Now is your time to shine. Saving $1,000 in a year is your challenge and Up is on your team.

Lock away a little each week. In a year you'll save a lot.

Join the Save Up 1000
Remove the weight of self‑control

Use Locked and Hidden Savers to ensure your money stays safe or hidden away till you hit your ultimate goal. Think you need that money now? Locked Savers give you a three hour delay to give you time to reconsider, or your 'accountability buddy' can unlock it earlier for you.

Learn why we built Locked Savers
Out Of Sight Out Of Mind

No matter what your savings goals are you can automate them with Split Payments. Simply turn it on and adjust the percentage of your pay you want to send into each of your Savers on pay day. It’s as easy as that!

Learn how Pay Splitting works
Join forces with your second player

Whether you're saving for a holiday or a castle, 2Up lets you create shared Savers you and your second player can both contribute to. It's time to power up!

Take on a new adventure with your Player 2
Save for a home deposit with Up

Want your own place someday? Home Deposit Savers show you where you’re at, how much you need, and how long it will take to save.

Learn about Home Deposit Savers

Kicking savings goals: The Up Banking App makes it very easy for me to set saving goals, implement ways to achieve them.

App store review by Maj434511

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== features_slices_.txt ===

Easy With Mates
Get Purchases Perfectly Sliced
Slice any purchase or payment with your mates on Up.
It’s the easiest way to share a shop or a good night out. More treats. Less hassle.

Everyone’s Slice is split quick and sent pronto. No manual BS, no bank details.

Slice a purchase and put out the call. Up will keep records and send the reminders.

Any purchase, any payment. Slice a shop for 3 or 20. Adjust by $ amounts or shares.

Play a payments power move.
Slice up the cost with anyone on Up.

Tickets, rent, bills or drinks. Mother’s Day treats or flowers for a friend. Instantly Slice up the price by dollars, percent, or equal shares.

Pay with Up

Make your purchase. You’re the hero, sorting out the bill.

But you’re not paying alone, so tap on the charge and hit ‘Slice this purchase’.

You’ll be whisked away to pick from a fine selection of premium Upsider mates.

Choose who you’ll split this purchase with.

Spin those Splits

Equal shares are the default, but you can add extra for the mate who drinks like a fish; split by percentages, or lock a smaller amount for a mate who’s short.

Personalise your splits with a message or a GIF. Your mates can tap to pay you back pronto, or knock it back if it doesn’t feel right.

(And if they get distracted, Up will keep them on the clock with reminders).

Keep an Eye on the Kitchen

Your pizza progress chart will fill as more money rolls in.

Check back any time to see your Slices’ status; how close you are to being totally repaid, and frankly which mate is the quickest payer-backer. We’re not saying it’s a competition but it is.

The Big Questions
What if my mates aren’t all on Up?

First of all, Hook them Up with the world’s snazziest orange banking solution. If they aren’t yet on the Up train, you’ll have to go old school. Cover their share and get your cash in the car park.

What if they don’t pay me back right away?

Up sends repeating requests so you don’t have to. If they keep ignoring those requests, maybe they’re just not a good mate. We’re really sorry, you’re worth more than that. A mate of ours likes to lend $50 to people he never wants to see again and considers it well spent. Hope this sorta helps.

How many people can I slice a bill with?

We’re working with 20 for now. That… should be enough?? Go get it you party animal.

Can I slice 2Up transactions?

Not at the moment. We’re starting with regular-flavoured Up accounts. More awesome tooling is coming as we grow.

What should we get Grandma for her birthday?

Fancy gin, a ridiculously comfy throw that matches her couch, and some quality time cause she loves you and honestly she really just wants to know what you’re up to.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 

=== features_upcoming-bills_.txt ===

FEATURES: UPCOMING BILLS

Your Upcoming Bills.
Predicted.

Imagine knowing when all your upcoming bills and subscriptions were due before you spent all your cash.

Up learns about your regular charges and predicts when they'll be charged next so you know how much you really have to spend in the weeks ahead.

Pay Your Bills With Up

Send Late Fees To An Early Grave.

Auto Detection of Your Regular Payments

Just by using Up to pay for things, many of your recurring subscriptions, upcoming charges and bills are detected and added to Upcoming.

Add The Bills You want

Know something will come round again? Tell us it’s a Regular and how often it’ll come around and we’ll add it to your Upcoming list.

See All Your Upcoming Bills

Up shows you charges due in the next 30 days so you’re always across what you’re subscribed to and can factor them into your budget.

Never Pay Late Fees Again

Once we know what you’ve got coming up, you’ll get a notification a few days before it’s due if it looks like you won’t have enough in your account.

Hook Up Afterpay

If you use AfterPay you can connect your account and see upcoming AfterPay payments right alongside your other upcoming bills. You’ll also get Smart Receipts that show what you bought, right in your account.

Read the blog post about Afterpay integration

Best Banking App I’ve Used. Up brings fun to banking. You read that right. Fun. I enjoy budgeting now and am always aware of upcoming payments. I love the ability to see my spending habits ‑ each month is summarised into categories.

App store review by Caleb6149

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== happy-hour_.txt ===

Start the weekend with
a Happy Ending.

Pay on Up for a chance to win cash back on your end of week food & drinks.
Every Friday between 5-7pm.

How to play

From 5-7pm every Friday, spend $10 or more with your Up card (physical or digital) at any merchant in the ‘Restaurants & Cafes’ or ‘Pubs & Bars’ category for one chance to play.

If that purchase is selected you’ll get a push notification and a sticker on your transaction in-app. Tap on either to try your luck and you could win up to $50 cashback!

Full T&Cs apply
The golden hours

Happy Hour runs every Friday from 5-7pm local time wherever you are in Australia.* Each week when Happy Hour is live, we’ll show the remaining prize pool on this page so you know how much cash is still up for grabs!

Exception: AWST will apply in ACWST areas.

Get higher with mates

When you play, up to three of your mates can boost the potential max prize. Just tap the boost-meter and get them to scan the QR code.

Any of your mates can raise the stakes for your Happy Hour spin. Any mates not on Up get a bonus $10 gift when they sign up after boosting you. It’s a win-win!

A real happy ending

Playing is too easy — just pull down on the Happy Hour tab to take a spin and if you win, you’ll get cashback in your account.

Don’t be afraid to share your happy ending on your socials and tag @up_banking — after all, winners are grinners.

If you don’t win, try your hand again next Friday from 5-7pm by making another eligible purchase. The good times keep rollin’.

Hook Up A Mate and enjoy Happy Hour together

Unwinding on a Friday arvo with your mates is what Happy Hour is all about. But how can you make a great thing greater? By getting a chance to win cash back on a round of drinks or snacks!

So share the love, and let your mates know what they’re missing out on.

IOUs are a thing of the past with Pay Requests,

Forget about BSBs and account numbers with $Upnames

Split bills faster with Slices.

Questions
Can I play Happy Hour more than once?

Your first eligible purchase ($10 or more) made between 5-7pm on a Friday will go into the draw to be selected for a chance to play. Happy Hour runs every Friday 5-7pm, so you can enter once every week!

My favourite spot is not in the ‘Restaurants & Cafes’ or ‘Pubs & Bars’ category

If the merchant isn’t yet to be identified, you can identify them in-app by tapping into the purchase. If they’re already identified but don’t fall under the eligible categories, shoot our Support team a message in-app and they’ll take a look to see if we can help.

How old do I need to be to play?

Happy Hour is open to all Upsiders, 16 years and over.

Do my mates need to be on Up to boost my potential prize?

Nope! Any of your mates can boost your potential prize by scanning your QR code. Make sure you let them know that after they give you a boost, they can get a $10 gift if they sign up with Up.

I missed my Happy Hour notification! Now what?

Dang! If you’ve missed your Happy Hour notification, you’ll have to try again next Friday between 5-7pm. Keep your eyes peeled.

Can I opt out of Happy Hour forever?

Yep! Just shoot our Support team a message in-app via the Talk to Us tab and they’ll sort that out for you.

=== happy-hour_terms_.txt ===

Up Happy Hour Promotion ('Conditions of Entry')
Each Promotion is conducted on Friday only each week.
Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Each Promotion commences at 5pm and closes at 7pm (based on local time) on a Friday (each a “Happy Hour Period”). The Promotions will commence from 5pm (local time) on 17 November 2023 and will continue on each subsequent Friday, until otherwise specified by the Promoter. All advertising for the Promotions will be removed as soon as the Promotions cease. Exception on time zones applicable: AWST will apply in ACWST areas.

Eligible entrants

Entry is only open to Australian residents who are 16 years and over, have an Up Everyday Debit Card Account and have registered access to the ‘Up’ banking app on their compatible device.

Entrants under the age of 18 must have parent or legal guardian approval to enter.

How to enter

Prizes will be awarded during Happy Hour Periods as they are shown on https://up.com.au/happy-hour. Exact value of prize Credit available to be won in total during each Happy Hour Period will be listed on the aforementioned website.

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete an Eligible Transaction using their Up Everyday Card/Digital Wallet during a Happy Hour Period.

The following conditions must be met in order for a purchase to be a qualifying transaction for this Promotion (“Eligible Transaction”):

The purchase must be made at an identified merchant that has been previously categorised as "Restaurants & Cafes", or “Pubs & Bars” within the larger “Good Life” parent category inside the Up app;
The purchase must be made while a Happy Hour Period is active in the merchants’ timezone (active periods will be updated from time to time and listed at https://up.com.au/happyhour).
The purchase must be made at point of sale using a valid Up Mastercard debit card (physical or digital) — 2Up debit cards are not currently eligible; and
Purchase must be a minimum of $10 in one transaction.

The following are not Eligible Transactions:

Cash out
Any transaction which have been reversed or cancelled
Cash advances
ATM withdrawal
BPay payments
Pay Anyone payments
Any purchase made from a merchant that has not been categorised as a "Restaurants & Cafes", or “Pubs & Bars”; note that purchases from the category “Booze” or “Takeaway” will not be eligible.

Once an Eligible Transaction has been made by the customer they’ll be alerted via a notification in the Up app that they can now ‘play’ the Happy Hour game of chance wheel. This involves tapping through on screen and spinning the digital wheel to potentially win a cash prize ranging between $1-$50.

The specific amount that the customer can potentially win is dependent on the size of their Eligible Transaction. It is calculated as a percentage of this Eligible Transaction (with a possible range overall from 5-50%). Eligible Transactions are grouped in different dollar amount bands and rounded.

To increase the maximum prize potential (i.e. get it closer to 50%) the customer can get other people they’re physically with at the time to use their own devices to scan the Happy Hour ‘boost’ QR code (present on the Up customer’s device, as part of the Happy Hour in-app screen flow). Any mates not on Up get a bonus $10 when they sign up to Up after boosting you (using the campaign invite code shown on screen within their mobile browser).

Note, there is no guarantee of winning a cash prize (regardless of mode played).

The entrant must complete the spin by 7:15pm (local time) on the same day of notification in the Up app. After 7:15pm (local time), this will no longer be possible in-app, and the chance to complete their entry will have expired.

Entries permitted

Limit one (1) entry permitted per week, based on the first Eligible Transaction within the Promotional Period. Maximum of one (1) prize per person each week. Non-winning spins count as an entry.

All valid Happy Hour entries have a chance of winning provided there is still available prize money (this can be viewed during competition hours at https://up.com.au/happyhour). The probability of an entry winning is determined by a number of factors including the time and money remaining for that day as well as the number and recency of any past wins the entrant may have had.

Instant Win Winning Method:

Entrants will be notified immediately upon completing an eligible purchase and playing the Happy Hour game of chance wheel in-app, if they are a winner.

Each winner will see the amount they’ve won appear on the wheel on their app screen once it stops spinning, and will receive an in-app notification that a rounded amount between $1-$50 has been credited to them, and added back to their Up account in the form of ‘cashback’. If they do not win, they will see a “Sorry” message in-app.

The prize is delivered immediately following an Eligible Transaction, notification is provided through the App at the time of prize delivery and will be visible in the customer’s Up app activity feed.

Total Prize Pool:

The total amount of Credit awarded for any individual Promotion (i.e. each Friday) will be determined by the Promoter, but the minimum and maximum amounts per state/territory per Promotion will be as follows:

Victoria: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
New South Wales: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
ACT: $1 AUD to $3000 AUD
Queensland: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
South Australia: $1 AUD to $5000 AUD
Western Australia: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
Tasmania: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
Northern Territory: $1 AUD to $5000 AUD

The exact number of prizes awarded will vary based on the value of the winning Eligible Transactions that occur within the Promotional Period.

Further Terms and Conditions:
1. The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
2.Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
3. Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during Happy Hour Periods.
4. Quality control errors will not invalidate an otherwise valid prize claim.
5. Unless otherwise due to fraud or ineligibility under these Terms and Conditions, all prize claims in excess of the advertised prize pool will be honoured.
6. If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize by the time specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
7. Where entry is allowed by purchase or subscription, the cost of the product or service is no greater than the cost would be without the opportunity to participate in the Promotion.
8. No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
9. If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and/or specification, subject to any written directions of a regulatory authority.
10. No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion.
11. If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
12. Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter is bound by the Australian Privacy Principles in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and its privacy policy which is located at https://www.up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter's privacy policy contains information about how the entrant may access, update and seek correction of the personal information the Promoter holds about them and how the entrant may complain about any potential breach by the Promoter of the Australian Privacy Principles or any other Australian privacy laws and how such complaints will be dealt with. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion and to the State and Territory lottery departments as required under the relevant lottery legislation. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion. Personal information collected from entrants will not be disclosed to any entity located outside of Australia.
13. Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
14. If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize, subject to State or Territory regulation.
15. The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
16. The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion, the decision of the Promoter is final and binding on each entrant and no correspondence will be entered into.
17. The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or willful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation), except for any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in which case that liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
18. The entrant will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
19. Unless otherwise specified, a prize is a single event for the winner (and where relevant their guests) and cannot be separated into separate events or components.
20. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
21. Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 11 October 2023

=== happyhourgiveaway_.txt ===

Happy Hour Giveaway Promotion Terms & Conditions ('Conditions of Entry')
Promotion

Happy Hour Giveaway Promotion

Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Start date: 14/12/23 at 12:00 pm AEDT
End date: 15/12/23 at 12:00 pm AEDT

Eligible entrants

Entry is only open to Australian residents who are 16 years and over and existing Up account holders. Entrants under the age of 18 must have parent or legal guardian approval to enter.

How to enter

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

visit @up_banking on Instagram (located at www.instagram.com/up_banking);
comment on the promotional post with their ‘Upname’ and tag a friend;
like the promotional post; and
follow @up_banking on Instagram.
Entries permitted

Only one (1) eligible entry per person will be accepted. By completing the entry method, the entrant will receive one (1) entry.

Total prize pool

AUD $750.00

Prize Description

The prize consists of:

The prize is a Limited Edition 'Happy Hour' x Up branded hat (colour: brown) (1 size only).
Number of prizes

30

Value (per prize)

AUD$25.00

Winning Method

Draw: computerised random selection - 18/12/23 at 12:00 pm AEDT

Winner notification:

The winners will be contacted via their Up app within seven (7) days of the draw.

Unclaimed Prizes

Prizes must be claimed by 19/02/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT. In the event of an unclaimed prize, the prize will be redrawn on 20/02/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT at Plexus, Level 4, 411 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000. The winners of the redraw will be notified via their Up app within seven (7) days of the redraw.

The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
Employees (and their immediate family members) of agencies/companies directly associated with the conduct of this Promotion, the Promoter, businesses involved in determination of winner/s for the Promotion, businesses involved in the management of the Promotion, any organisation benefiting from the Promotion, the Promoter’s distributors, suppliers, subsidiary companies/businesses and associated companies and agencies are not eligible to enter. "Immediate family member" means any of the following: spouse, ex-spouse, de-facto spouse, child or step-child (whether natural or by adoption), parent, step-parent, grandparent, step-grandparent, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister or 1st cousin.
If a prize is won by a person under the age of 18, the prize may be awarded to the winner's parent or guardian and where applicable to the prize a nominated parent/guardian must accompany any person under 18 years of age.
Draw:
The draw will take place at Plexus, Level 4, 411 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000 at 12:00 pm AEDT on 11/12/23 using computerised random selection.
The first thirty (30) valid entries drawn will be the winners of the prizes specified in the Schedule above.
The draw conductor may draw additional reserve entries in case an invalid entry or entrant is drawn.
If a draw is scheduled on the weekend or a public holiday, the draw will be conducted at the same time and location on the following business day. The Promoter will ensure each draw is open for public scrutiny and anyone may witness the draw on request. The winner of a drawn prize is determined by chance.
All reasonable attempts will be made to contact each winner.
If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize within a reasonable time, as specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
Entry and continued participation in the Promotion is dependent on the entrant following and acting in accordance with the Instagram Terms of Use, (http://instagram.com/legal/terms/). This Promotion adheres to the terms and conditions set out in the Instagram promotion guidelines which can be found at: http://help.instagram.com/179379842258600. Any questions or comments regarding the Promotion must be directed to the Promoter, not to Instagram. The entrant releases Instagram and its associated companies from all liabilities arising in respect of the Promotion. Entrants acknowledge that the Promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with Instagram.
The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and specification.
No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion. Where entry is allowed online, there is no additional cost to enter the Promotion other than any cost paid by the entrant to access the website or social media platform of entry via their Internet service provider.
If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter will handle personal information in accordance with its privacy policy which is located at https://up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion and to the State and Territory lottery departments as required under the relevant lottery legislation. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion.
The Promoter reserves the right to refuse to allow a winner to take part in any or all aspects of a prize, if the Promoter determines in their absolute discretion, that a winner is not in the physical or mental condition necessary to be able to safely participate in or accept the prize. It is a condition of accepting the prize that a winner (or their parent or legal guardian if under the age of 18) may be required to sign a legal release as determined by the Promoter in its absolute discretion, prior to receiving a prize. If a winner is under the age of 18, a nominated parent or legal guardian of the winner will be required to sign the legal release on the winner's behalf.
If a prize is provided to the Promoter by a third party, the prize is subject to the terms and conditions of the third party prize supplier. The terms and conditions which apply to the prize at the time it is issued to the winner will prevail over these Conditions of Entry in the event of any inconsistency. To the extent permitted by law the Promoter accepts no responsibility or liability for any delay or failure by the third party to deliver the prize, any delay or failure relating to the prize itself or failure by the third party to meet any of its obligations in these Conditions of Entry or otherwise.
Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize, subject to State or Territory regulation.
The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion or claiming a prize, the Promoter will resolve the dispute in direct consultation with the entrant. If the dispute cannot be resolved the Promoter’s decision will be final.
The winner(s) will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 13 December 2023

=== hi-fi_.txt ===

Your Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi is the future of money management — a simple, automated system that will have you cruising between pay days, confident your bills are sorted, savings goals on track, and a clear understanding of how much you can spend on the good life.

Hi—Fi is a modern alternative to books and complex budgeting systems — a software solution developed with data from hundreds of thousands of humans and millions of transactions. And as software, Hi—Fi will only get better over time.

1. Check-in.

Hi—Fi aims to put you on better terms with your money, not just increase your bank balance. This starts with an initial check-in to see how you're feeling and touches base every few months to see how you’re tracking.

2. Set up Pay Day.

Pay Day is the heartbeat of your Hi—Fi system. When your regular income arrives into Up, Hi—Fi springs into action, immediately notifying you that you’ve been paid and automatically reserving money for bills and savings goals.

3. Sort Your Bills.

Adding your regular bills and subscriptions to Up will unlock your Spendable Balance — the money you can safely spend while still having enough left to cover those essentials.

4. Save On Auto.

Pay Splitting lets you effortlessly work towards your savings goals, setup your own envelope budgeting system, or stash away some cash before you've had a chance to miss it.

Get Hi—Fi Today.

Hi—Fi lives in the Up app to the left of the Up screen. Swipe on over from Activity and follow the instructions to get started.

See how Australians are tracking at the Up Sound Check
Learn more about the thinking behind Hi—Fi

=== hi-fi_sound-check_.txt ===

Sound Check
November 2023
We asked over 50,000 Upsiders to check-in on their financial wellbeing.
Here’s what they told us.

All figures taken as of November 13th 2023. Sample size = 54,161 Upsiders.

Aussies are feeling pretty “meh” about money

The median reported Financial Wellbeing score across all Upsiders was 55/100, falling a little short of hitting any high notes.

Boomers are topping the charts

Baby Boomers had the highest median Financial Wellbeing score at 65 out of 100, with Millenials (Gen Y) up next with a median score of 60. Gen X and Gen Z both reported a median score of 55.

But overall, we’re striking an optimistic chord

Upsiders reported feeling less than amazing about money at the moment, but also felt their feelings were improving.

Despite the many obstacles in our way

Almost half of Upsiders are singing the blues about overspending on shopping, going out and other leisure activities, while a third pointed to the current high cost of living as a key issue for their financial goals falling flat.

Older Upsiders blame the economy, while younger Upsiders blame themselves

More than half of Gen Z were more likely to attribute difficulties in getting ahead with money to their own overspending, but among almost half of Baby Boomers, Gen X and Gen Y, the high cost of living takes centre stage.

But Hi—Fi is orchestrating a turnaround for all

Over two-thirds of Upsiders reported an improvement in how they feel about money since taking control of their financial wellbeing with Up. We’d call that a pretty sound result!

About Hi—Fi: Your Financially Sound System

Hi—Fi by Up is the future of money management — a simple, automated system that will have you cruising between pay days, confident your bills are sorted, savings goals on track, and a clear understanding of how much you can spend on the good life.

Learn more about Hi-Fi
Still got questions?
Hit us up at media@up.com.au

=== home-loans_.txt ===

Your Own Home? Easy on Up.

Up Home is designed to guide you along your entire journey to home ownership and beyond. From saving, to buying and applying, we’ve reimagined every step to be simple and not drain your brain – something you can do from the comfort of your couch (no economics degree required).

DIY with no downside

Up Home makes buying a home something you can handle yourself. No hard mode, no brochures, no brokers required.

Head to the Home Zone in-app to get an idea of how much you could borrow. Then when you’ve found the place you love, or are ready to refinance, it's easy to apply.

Turbo tools

When you join Up Home, your eligible Savers automatically flip into free 100% Offsets. Add Roundups and Payment Splits to your Savers to pay off your loan faster. Up Home also comes with free redraw should you need it.

To see what our automated savings tools could save you in time and money over the term of your Up Home loan, try our Upgraded Rate Calculator.

Get your Upgraded Rate
The Upside is clear

Applying is simple, straight from the app, so you can get on with booking the movers and picking a colour for that feature wall.

We don't charge most of the fees that bump up those tempting 'advertised rates' when you apply at some other banks.

It's just a straight Up good deal for everyone – even if you're buying with a 10% deposit.

How much does
a home cost?
IndicatorTable

Property Price *

$50,000

Property Price*

$50,000

Repayments / Month*

$240

Min Annual Income*

$6,667

The slider above gives you an idea of what your repayments might cost if you borrowed 80% of the property price at a variable and comparison rate of 6.00% p.a. over 30 years, and the gross income you’ll likely need. To dig through how this is worked out, give this explainer a read.

Is Up Home right for me?

Up Home loans are owner-occupier loans for Upsiders buying in a capital city or major regional centre. You can get one for a home you already own, or a home you’ve fallen in love with.

There's a bit more detail here
If you’re getting ready to buy soon

Enter the Home Zone.

The Home Zone is our superfast conditional pre-approval tool. It uses your Up spending insights to help you understand what you can afford to borrow. Better yet you won’t have to start from scratch during your search for a new home.

If there are a couple of properties you have your eye on, don’t stress, you can still get everything else assessed and confirm the exact property later using your saved application.

If you're ready to buy or refinancing now

We’ll guide you through everything you need to join Up Home.

To get started we'll value your property, check your details, run a credit check and validate your finances. If there’s something the Up robots can't find, our Welcome Home team will be in touch to help you out.

I'm ready to refinance
Great rates from day one

Our variable comparison and annual rates are the same, because we don’t charge most of the fees that can push comparison rates higher. Rates last updated on 17 December, 2024.

Learn more about Up Home Rates and Fees

Variable RateFixed Rate
6.00% p.a.
6
.
0
0
%
PA
%
p.a

Current Annual & Comparison Rate

Tell us you’re dreaming

Not ready yet, but definitely keen to own someday? Why not kick off an Up Home Deposit Saver?

Home Deposit Savers are a special kind of Up Saver that shows you your total savings (including stuff you don’t keep in Up), minus costs like stamp duty. Get a timeline based on your real saving patterns. So you’ll always know where you are, and when you’ll likely be ready to buy.

Plus you’ll learn more about home buying as you save. So when you’re ready? You’ll be really really ready.

Start my Saver
Up Home Learning Centre

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn more about home loans
Ready to apply?

The keys to Up Home are in your app. Scan below for application gratification. If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_HighlightsSection_.txt ===

Meet our Up Home Guides.

Our expert Up Home Guides are here to help you get set up without a fuss. Chat with our locally based team in-app via the Talk to Us tab today.

A first-class experience.

Winner of the 2024 Mozo Expert Choice Award for the best ‘offset home loan’ on the market.

Upgrade your Home Loan

If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

=== home-loans_a-home-loan-for-two_.txt ===

A home loan for two, all in one.

Up Home is designed to work seamlessly with 2Up — a great joint account for managing your home loan. Put our auto-saving features to work and control the life of your loan with your Player 2 — all from the comfort of your phone.

Experience our award‑winning home loan today.

Our Variable Rate

6.00% p.a

Current Annual & Comparison Rate

Apply Now

Free Offsets & Redraw.

Get up to 50 Savers and a joint Spending account that all automatically flip into free 100% offsets. Enjoy free redraw and no application, setup, monthly or annual fees.

Auto-Saving Integration.

Inject your loan with system-wide integration and auto-saving features that help you pay off your loan sooner.

100% Digital.

Complete your application in-app and we’ll handle the rest. Manage your entire loan on your phone, from the couch or on the go.

Meet our Up Home Guides.

Our expert Up Home Guides are here to help you get set up without a fuss. Chat with our locally based team in-app via the Talk to Us tab today.

A first-class experience.

Winner of the 2024 Mozo Expert Choice Award for the best ‘offset home loan’ on the market.

Upgrade your Home Loan

If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_apply_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Get started in-app

The keys to Up Home are in your app. Scan below for application gratification. If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

Before you apply, we recommend you check out the Up Home Booklet, our Target Market Determinations, Key Facts Sheet, privacy docs, and credit guide. It’s a bit to read, but this is a big deal.

Up home loans might suit you if:

You want to keep all your money together

You want to keep your Up Savers and tools

You’re buying or refinancing a property you will live in

Your home is in a capital city or major regional centre

You’ll have at least a 10% equity in the property

You want to borrow more than $50,000

You’re currently employed. You can be employed by someone else, or self‑employed

You’re an Australian citizen or permanent resident who lives in Australia, and you can show this with at least one form of government ID, and

You’re applying by yourself or with one other Upsider.

What you’ll need

When we get started on your application, we’ll need to ask a few quick questions about you, your 2Up partner (if you're applying together), and your home. Have some ID handy as well as info about your income and expenses.

What happens next?

After you apply in-app we’ll value your property, check your details, run a credit check and validate your finances. If there’s something the Up robots can’t find, a real human from our team at Up or our partners Tiimely and Bendigo Bank will pop in and help out.

Once you’re approved, your loan docs will be auto-generated and sent to you. Sign and return them. Easy!

(Not totally ready? Open a free Home Saver and we’ll help you build your own path to glory.)

FAQ
What’s your definition of a capital city or major regional centre?

Up home loans are designed for urban centres, rather than rural properties. Kick off an application in-app and we’ll be able to tell you in a few minutes if the postcode you’re looking at is suited to Up Home. If you’re outside our zones, Bendigo Bank has a range of lending options available that might suit you better.

10% seems kinda low, aren’t you supposed to have 20%?

20% is the traditional standard. For most Up Home purchases you’ll need to take out Lender’s Mortgage Insurance if you have less than 20% saved.

Some people prefer to save till they’re past the LMI requirement; others feel that the cost of LMI is worth it to buy now. We can’t tell you what the right option is for you: neither can the nice lady with the tarot cards or your Uncle Steve Who Knows About House Prices Cause He Bought Three Houses Cheap in 1986. This one is your call.

Do you really really mean self employment is OK?

Yes, we do. You’ll need to be able to demonstrate that your income is high enough over at least a year to meet the demands of regular, ongoing loan payments. We’ll chat further with you when you kick off an application.

Do I need to apply with someone else?

Nope. It’s a common myth that you must be coupled up to get a home loan. All you need to do is show us you can cover the repayments. Go you little red fire engine.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_award-winning-offset_.txt ===

An award‑winning offsets home loan.

Up Home automatically turns your eligible Savers and Spending account into free 100% offsets. Put our auto-saving features to work and control the life of your loan — all from the comfort of your phone.

Experience our award‑winning home loan today.

Our Variable Rate

6.00% p.a

Current Annual & Comparison Rate

Apply Now

Free Offsets & Redraw.

Get up to 50 Savers and a joint Spending account that all automatically flip into free 100% offsets. Enjoy free redraw and no application, setup, monthly or annual fees.

Auto-Saving Integration.

Inject your loan with system-wide integration and auto-saving features that help you pay off your loan sooner.

100% Digital.

Complete your application in-app and we’ll handle the rest. Manage your entire loan on your phone, from the couch or on the go.

Meet our Up Home Guides.

Our expert Up Home Guides are here to help you get set up without a fuss. Chat with our locally based team in-app via the Talk to Us tab today.

Upgrade your Home Loan

If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_calculate-your-upgraded-rate_.txt ===

Calculate Your Upgraded Rate.

Use our Upgraded Rate calculator to see how much time and money our automated savings tools and offsets could save you over the term of your home loan.

The Features Powering Your Upgraded Rate

Automatically Save
With Your Pay.

Save On Auto-Pilot
With Payment Splits.

Boost Your Round Ups
To Save As You Spend.

Up To 50 Free
100% Offsets.

$36,231.46 saved in interest

Scroll to see your Upgraded Rate

Scroll to see your Upgraded Rate

Interest saved:

$36,231.46

1. Upgrade Your Home Loan

Your Home Loan Details

Let’s get the lay of the land. Enter the amount remaining on your current home loan and select a repayment term.

Amount

Term

Variable Rate

6.00%

2. Input your Income

Save with your Pay

Getting paid directly into Up means your income will save you money on your home loan. The exact amount you could save will depend on your income level and your spending habits.

Annual income before tax (ex. super)

excluding Super

Add a second person/income

Read More

3. Set up Payment Splits

Save with Pay Splitting

Up lets you automatically save by splitting a percentage of your pay across your Saver Offsets, as soon as you get paid. Saving just 1% of your pay can have a big impact over the life of your loan.

Percentage of pay to split into a Saver

2%

Thats +$72.07 saved into your offset each month

Read More

4. Boost Your Round Ups

Save as you spend

Effortlessly save as you spend with Round Ups. Up can automatically round up your purchases and put the change into an offset Saver. Boost your Round Ups by up to $10 to save even more.

Round Ups on transactions?

OffOn

Boost your Round Ups

$5

$0

$10

Read More

5. Use your 50 Free 100% Offsets

Save with your savings

Up to 50 eligible Savers and Spending accounts automatically flip into free 100% offsets. The more money in your offsets, the less interest you pay on your loan.

Savings

5
.
5
0
%
Your Upgraded Rate

With this setup you could save $36,231.46 in interest – which would mean paying off your loan 1 year and 10 months sooner. To save this much interest without Up’s offsets, you’d need a rate of 5.50%

Interest saved

$36,231.46

Time saved

1 year and 10 months

Your Upgraded rate is meant for illustrative purposes only. It is an approximate rate that would result in the same interest saving that our current variable rate and the features configured above would provide over the term of the loan. It does not factor in interest rate or income changes, and is not our actual rate.

How is this calculated?
It’s simple, really.

Save Money

Our auto-saving features could save you money in interest.

Save Time

Which could mean paying your loan off sooner.

Your Upgraded Rate

It’s a bit like a comparison rate, but one that's designed to illustrate your potential savings in percentage form.

Disclaimers
How is this calculated?

The results from this offset savings calculator gives an indication of the interest and time you could save on your loan by having money in your eligible Up Spending and Savers, and using our automated savings features to save more money in your eligible offset Savers over the loan term, compared to an Up Home loan without any offset balances.

Money in eligible Up Spending and Savers counts as part of your offset balance for interest purposes.

This calculator calculates your offset balance using the current savings balance you have indicated and the anticipated ongoing savings amount based on your Round Up selection and the amount you say you’ll save each month.

The maximum amount you can input as the amount you’ll save each month is 20% of your income.

The estimated savings results are calculated based on the information you’ve inputted, our current variable interest rate and the assumptions below and detailed for each feature. The actual savings you can achieve may be less depending on your spending habits, how you configure relevant Up features, whether the assumptions are correct for you, and changes to interest rates over the term of the loan.

The calculator doesn’t take into account interest you could earn on your savings if they were held in an interest bearing account. The results from the calculator are generic and have been prepared without knowing your full financial circumstances. Before making a decision about a product you should consider whether the product is right for you and seek professional financial advice.

Calculator Assumptions

Indicated savings calculated using the calculator are based on the following assumptions:

No Savers withdrawals

The calculator assumes that money in your offset Savers (including the amounts you say you have or will save and from Round ups) is not spent or withdrawn from your offset Savers.

No interest rate changes

The calculator assumes our current interest rate applies for the full loan term and does not change.

You don’t make additional repayments

The calculator assumes you only make your required repayments and do not make additional repayments.

Save with your pay

Any money you have in an eligible Spending account offsets an Up Home loan, which means getting your pay into Up will reduce the interest on your loan while it is in your Spending account, even if you spend it all by the end of every month.

Calculator information

The calculator assumes that any money from your monthly income that’s not saved will be spent evenly over the month. Therefore your offset balance is calculated with the Spending balance reducing down to $0 by the end of the month.

Our calculations are based on a monthly after tax (net) income amount. Income amounts that are entered as annual before tax (gross) amounts are converted to an approximate a monthly after tax (net) amount, using the tax tables provided by the Australian Tax Office and based on the assumption that one year contains exactly 52 weeks or 26 fortnights.

We assume eligibility for the full tax-free threshold but our calculations do not take into account your individual tax situation, including any HECS/HELP debt, additional income, rental income, dependants, Medicare levy surcharge, or any deductions or tax strategies you may have.

Save with Pay Splitting

The more of your pay that you split into an eligible saver and keep there, the more your savings and offsets will be over time.

Calculator information

The maximum amount you can input as the amount you’ll save each month is 20% of your income.

The calculator assumes that money in your offset Savers (including the amounts you say you have or will save and from Round ups) is not spent or withdrawn from your offset Savers.

The calculator assumes that any money from your monthly income that’s not saved will be spent evenly over the month. Therefore your offset balance is calculated with the Spending balance reducing down to $0 by the end of the month.

Save with Round Ups

With Round Ups on, purchases are rounded up to the nearest dollar and those extra cents are put into the Saver of your choice. Boosting your Round Ups gives you the option to save up to $10 more per transaction on top of that. Round Ups will help you save even more over time, as everything in an eligible offset Saver will reduce the interest paid on your loan.

Calculator information

If you have indicated that you will use the Round Up functionality, the calculator calculates the ongoing savings amount based on an average of 2.19 Round Ups per day with an average amount of 50c per Round Up, with any Round Up boosts added on top of this. This is the median number of transactions and average Round Up amount for Up customers who use Round Ups at the time the calculator was created.

The calculator assumes that money in your offset Savers (including the amounts you say you have or will save and from Round Ups) is not spent or withdrawn from your offset Savers.

Upgrade your Home Loan
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_enter-up-home_.txt ===

Head in-app to learn more about the Home Zone.

Scan below for pre-qualification gratification. If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

=== home-loans_fees-and-rates_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees. Nice People.

We have loans for people who want to live in their home, and pay it off fast so they can own it completely.

You won’t need to call us to negotiate a great rate. And, we won’t charge you most of the fees you’ll find at other lenders.

All this, at an ethical bank where you can talk to actual humans.

Up Home Variable Rate Loan

With a variable rate, the interest you’ll pay will match market conditions so your repayments might go up or down over time. Variable rates involve a little more fluctuation and risk. The rate advertised here is where you’ll start your journey.

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

CURRENT ANNUAL &COMPARISON RATE
6.00%

Our comparison and annual rates are the same, because we don’t charge most of the fees that can push comparison rates higher.
Rates last updated on 17 December, 2024.

TERM
1 Year
2 Years
3 Years
4 Years
5 Years
ANNUAL RATE
6.00% p.a.
5.75% p.a.
5.80% p.a.
5.80% p.a.
5.80% p.a.
COMPARISON RATE
6.00% p.a.
5.95% p.a.
5.94% p.a.
5.93% p.a.
5.91% p.a.
U
P
H
OM
E F
I
X
E
D
T
E
R
M
1 Year Fixed
2 Year Fixed
3 Year Fixed
4 Year Fixed
5 Year Fixed
Annual rate: 6.00% p.a.
Comparison rate: 6.00% p.a.
Annual rate: 5.75% p.a.
Comparison rate: 5.95% p.a.
Annual rate: 5.80% p.a.
Comparison rate: 5.94% p.a.
Annual rate: 5.80% p.a.
Comparison rate: 5.93% p.a.
Annual rate: 5.80% p.a.
Comparison rate: 5.91% p.a.

Rates last updated on 17 December, 2024.

Up Home Fixed Term Loan

With a fixed term loan, you tell us how long you’d like to lock in your rate for. Then you can be sure what your repayments will be over that period of time.

Fixed rates offer certainty about what you’ll need to pay. They can offer protection against potential future rate increases (but, you also won’t benefit if rates go down).

Before the end of a fixed term period, we’ll get in touch and see if you want to ‘re-fix’ your loan. If you don’t, you’ll roll onto the current variable rate.

Fees (who needs them, not us)

Bank ads have to show both an annual interest rate and a comparison rate to make it easier for you to see the rate you'll actually pay once bank fees and charges are factored in. With Up, our comparison and variable rate is the same because we have so few fees.

No application or setup fees.

No monthly or annual bank fees.

No redraw fees.

No discharge fees: leave us when you like outside of a fixed term.

We also pay the first $400 in our valuation costs, which covers most properties.

But wait, you can also...

Get started with a 10% deposit.

Spread your loan over a 30 year term if you need.

Make unlimited additional repayments on a variable loan or up to $30k for fixed rate loan.

Have up to 50 free offset accounts (more on why that's awesome here).

Just so you know

There are always other costs involved in buying a home and transferring the title, like stamp duty and title registration. You also may come across other purchasing and refinancing costs when buying a home, like conveyancers and building inspections.

If you already have a home loan with someone else and want to refinance to Up, your old bank might also charge you discharge fees.

When you’re ready to finalise your loan, we have to collect some of these fees from you and pass them on to the relevant parties.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_home-loan-booklet_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Up Home Booklet

The Up Home Booklet contains some of the information we must give you before you enter into an Up Home contract.

The rest of the information is in the Loan Schedule, which you will receive during the application process.

Your contract for Up Home consists of both documents and should be read together. You should read these documents carefully.

You should also keep the documents for your future reference.

Download the Up Home Booklet

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_key-facts-sheet_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Key Facts Sheet
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Up Home learning centre.

Figuring out what you want, if you can afford it, how to do the thing… here we're serving up some fine Up-style explainers. (PS: there's heaps more of these treats packed inside Home Deposit Savers. If you're new to home buying, maybe start one up!)

Saving your home deposit.

4 min read

Working out how much you can afford.

5 min read

Understanding home loans

5 min read

The People You'll Meet

6 min read

Getting Ready To Buy

5 min read

Let's Buy a Home

5 min read

Finalising Your Loan

3 min read

Time to Move

5 min read

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_finalising-your-loan_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Finalising Your Loan

What needs to happen to make your new home really, truly yours?

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

You're nearly there. The finish line (your new home) is in sight.

After all the hard work is done... how do you pay for it?

Get your pride and joy insured

You need insurance. It's going to be a condition of your loan - your lender won't hand over squat until you have it and may require they’re listed on your policy.

This feels obvious, but buying a new home is exciting and things can get missed. Before you set foot through the front door, it must be insured. Once that property is yours, everything that happens to it is your responsibility. Burns down? Floods? No one is paying for that except you.

Home insurance isn't the same as contents insurance. Generally, it covers the actual building, and not what's inside it. If a tree falls on your roof, your insurer will likely pay to fix the tiles (depending on the cover you have). So while you only have to get the one, you might want to think about both.

Read the policy carefully so you know what's actually covered. Don't assume everything is covered.

Final loan sign-off

You've already got pre-approval, but that's not the same as having a loan. Now your lender will confirm your identity, make sure you can make payments, and check your credit history. These details might have changed since you got pre-approval, especially if you bought something really different from what they expected (maybe check with them before you do that), or if something in your life has changed.

You might also decide you want to have a different lender than the one you did pre-approval with, and this is a time when you can change your mind.

Once that's done, you're ready to sign! With some lenders, you'll need to go into a branch to set up your mortgage account, but it's getting a lot more common to do it online.

Getting ready for settlement

First, you'll sign all the big documents online (you absolutely must read them even though they're just impressively, phenomenally boring). Second, your lender will make you a new account, and attach an offset account if you're getting one. Third, you'll put all the money you're personally contributing (your "contribution") into your new mortgage account.

Then, it's over to your squad. Your conveyancer, your lender and a joint called PEXA will join forces to make sure your money can be securely transferred for settlement. They'll set a day and a time for it all to go down but usually, you won't touch the money at all. You'll just get a text: it's done! That makes it heaps quicker and more secure.

If it can't be done in PEXA, your conveyancer can walk you through alternative options.

Sometimes settlements can be delayed. This is frustrating but only rarely means things will actually fall through. However, it's a good idea not to schedule the moving truck for the exact time settlement is meant to happen.

Making your first mortgage payment

Typically, you won't need to start making payments until after you've moved in. Your lender will set the date for the first payment, which is usually a fortnight, a week or a month after the settlement date (depending on what you choose). You can move in right after you settle, so you get a little breathing room.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_getting-ready-to-buy_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Getting Ready To Buy

You’ve done your research and feel like it’s time to buy a home. What do you need to sort out before you can shop for real?

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

You’ve now got the essentials: the types of people you might need, a rough budget, how to calculate interest, and a clear deposit goal. So how do you turn this info into action?

Know your priorities

Before you start, write down what's important and rank them. Adapt it as you go. If you inspect an apartment with a north-facing balcony and realise you can't live without one, add it to the list.

Compromise is a big part of house hunting. The chances of finding a place with everything you want, at the price you want to pay, in the right location is gonna be tough. So to make things easier, identify the non-negotiables, and the nice-to-haves.

If you're buying with others, you're probably going to need to compromise even further, which means really honing your top priorities.

Remember, too, that you're likely to stay in this place for a while, so your circumstances might change. In years to come, will your favourite neighbourhood still have everything you need? What if a new love interest wants to move in one day? Living above a bar is fun right now, but will you still love it if you end up on the early shift?

Know your suburbs and median prices

It pays to get to know an area before you decide to move into it.

Suburb guides are one way to get the background info. You can get reports from places like Domain and realestate.com.au. These guides list median prices - that's the property right in the middle of the low-high list of properties (that's different from the average). Median property price can give you an idea of what you could expect to pay, especially if you're also keeping a close eye on what's being bought and sold in your chosen area.

These guides also cover what kinds of households live nearby (couples, families, retirees, dog colonies), local amenities, schools, green space and shops. More comprehensive guides even list things like crime rates, and political leanings.

Home Zone

When you’re ready with a clear vision of what you’re planning to buy and have a fair-sized deposit for that style of place, it might be time to understand how much you can borrow.

With Up, we make this process easy with the Home Zone which gives you an indication of how much you can borrow using your Up spending insights.

Pre-approval

This is where your information is verified (including a check of your credit history). Plus, we cover you for a $400 property valuation, saving you both time and money.

What you'll need to get pre-approval

To determine whether they can give you conditional pre-approval, lenders look at the same kind of information they would if you were really, truly applying for a mortgage, including:

Your income and expenses

How much deposit you've saved, and

The price range of the properties you're into.

They'll also want to know what sort of property you want to buy, and where: some kinds of property will feel safer to them than others. After all, technically they're buying this with you, and in the beginning it's likely that they'll have more $$ invested in it than you will.

Get comfy with some different ways

In Australia, property is usually sold either at auction or via private sale. As the buyer, what you need to do will change according to the sale method.

It's worth not only knowing the major different ways to buy, but actually going along to a few sales you have no intention of buying at. You can build a strategy, see what places really sell for (pro tip: check the 'sold' section of the apps, not just the 'for sale' bit), and get your confidence up. The property market can move quickly, so you want to be as ready as possible to act fast and secure your dream place before someone else does.

We'll talk more later about the ins and outs of how this actually works. For now, make a note of the sale method and practise your subtle auction hand wave.

Some other things to consider

Taking your time, getting pre approval, doing your research and keeping tabs on sale events can mean potentially enduring a long wait, but also potentially put you in a good position as you learn.

It's a good time to get familiar not only with the things we've mentioned above, but also hundreds of weird little things that can happen in the property market.

There's boardroom sales, 'best and final' offers, 'off the plan' buying, and even writing letters to the owners of houses you like. Any of these could be part of your journey and there's so much to explore and learn.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_lets-buy-a-home_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Let's Buy a Home

You’ve found a home. You’ve got pre-approval. Everything is falling into place ... but what’s the last step?

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

There are two main ways to buy property in Australia: at auction or through a private sale.

Buying through Private Sale

If a place is for sale, you're welcome to make an offer on it as soon as you're ready - you don't have to wait for an auction. This is usually done through the seller's real estate agent, who handles negotiations, terms and so on.

How do you make an offer?

To start making an offer on a place, you decide what you think you can and should pay, and send it in writing to the seller's agent. The agent will share your offer with the vendor.

You can include things like dependencies: 'We'd like to offer $550K for this property in this location, subject to us getting final approval from our lender and the property passing a building inspection.'

Can I change my mind?

You're not tied to anything until both you and the seller have both signed an agreement and you've paid a deposit. An offer is the start of a conversation.

More than likely, the agent will come back with a counter offer, which you can counter in turn if you like. Or, several potential buyers might make offers and you'll need to decide if you want to stay in the fight.

You can even make offers on multiple properties, though offering often when you're not serious can give you a dark rep with agents and maybe even hurt you when you find The One.

How do I know what to offer?

There are rules around giving a fair idea of the expected sale price. They're a bit different in every state and territory, but generally it's against the law for real estate agents to massively underquote. That said, it can be wild out there and the price of a property ultimately comes down to what someone else is willing to pay. We've said it before, but checking the 'sold' section of the apps for properties that are truly like the one you're hoping to buy, and that have sold recently, can help here.

You can use all your existing research, suburb guides and budget and the price range to settle on an offer. There is likely to be a negotiation, especially if they have interest from other buyers, so think about whether you want to go in with your best and final offer right off the bat.

When is it all over?

If everything goes well, and you can agree on a price, the vendor or their agent will arrange for you to get a contract and pay a deposit. Before you hand over $$, you'll want to engage a conveyancer or solicitor. You'll also work with the agent and the seller to set the terms of settlement.

It's up to you to make sure that you get what you need throughout this process (like, if you've said 'subject to building inspection', don't skip it. And ensure you're comfortable with what the inspection means before you pay. A good inspector will walk you through what they found).

Buying at an auction

Buying at auction is as easy as registering your interest and sticking up your hand. In some places, like Victoria, you don't even have to register: just rock up and start bidding.

But doing it well is an art - there are whole Youtube rabbit holes for tips on how to stay calm and look like you're totally in control (even when you're dying inside a bit) so you can dominate the day.

At an auction, potential buyers bid against each other until only one remains. Sellers often opt for an auction (instead of a private sale) when they think their property is likely to attract multiple potential buyers who will bid against one another.

This can also mean many different people have fallen in love with the same place. So it's not a time for mercy. Your nerves will have to be pure steel. You might consider employing an advocate to negotiate and bid for you.

Offers before auction

Usually, a property that's up for auction will have a few open inspections and then the vendor will ultimately wait until auction day to sell. So, if you love it, you just have to hang in there and hope.

However, many sellers will also consider offers before auction. That means you can send your offer to the real estate agent ahead of time, based on what you think it's worth. If it's accepted, the auction will be cancelled.

Do I need to pay on the day?

Yes. Unlike private sales, which give you the chance to set clauses and negotiate, winning at an auction is binding and you will require financial approval.

If you win, you’ll need to pay your deposit on the day, when you sign the contract. Check the requirements in your state or territory.

You'll also need to get every inspection and contract detail you want before the day.

Also - and this is the tricky one - strongly consider setting a limit so you can stick to it. You know how we said to go to some auctions before you're ready to bid? When you do, you'll notice how auctions are designed to toy with your emotions so you pay more. If you reach your ceiling, walk away.

Navigating the home-buying process can be complex, but our Up Home Guides are here to help you understand everything. They can assist you every step of the way, making sure you're informed and feeling confident.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_making-sense-of-subsidies_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Making Sense of Subsidies

Buying your first home is like a charcuterie board packed with need-to-knows – except instead of delicious bresaola and burrata, it’s stamp duty, loan-to-value ratios and an eclectic selection of grants and subsidies.

If that last one is making your mouth water, you’re in luck. Here’s how to make sense of subsidies and get your hands on some sweet, sweet cash. Hopefully, it’ll help get you in your first home faster.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

First Home Owner Grant (FHOG)

The top dog. The big one. The First Home Owner Grant is an offering from the federal government designed to give you a lump sum cash injection to your first home purchase – yeehaw. We can feel the velvet couch already. The amount you can apply for is different in every state and territory, and each has their own criteria for who can apply. We’ve rounded up the top level information here, along with where to find out what’s available where you are:

First Home Owner Grant Victoria

Amount: $10,000
Max. property value: $750,000
Requirements: must be a new home
Find out more.

First Home Owner Grant New South Wales

Amount: $10,000
Max. property value: $750,000
Requirements: must be a new home
Find out more.

First Home Owner Grant Queensland

Amount: $15,000
Max. property value: $750,000
Requirements: must be a new home
Find out more.

First Home Owner Grant Western Australia

Amount: $10,000
Max. property value: $750,000 - $1,000,000 depending on location
Requirements: must be a new or off-the-plan home
Find out more.

First Home Owner Grant Tasmania

Amount: $30,000
Max. property value: n/a
Requirements: must be a new or off-the-plan home
Find out more.

First Home Owner Grant South Australia

Amount: $15,000
Max. property value: $575,000
Requirements: must be a new home
Find out more.

First Home Owner Grant Northern Territory

Amount: $10,000
Max. property value: n/a
Requirements: must be a new home
Find out more.

First Home Owner Grant Australian Capital Territory

The First Home Owner Grant has been replaced with the First Home Buyer Concession.

How to apply for the FHOG

Luckily, in some cases your application for the FHOG can be completed on your behalf by your lender or mortgage broker. You can also apply yourself through your state or territory’s government website. You’ll need evidence of your eligibility and identity, and probably a strong cuppa joe to see you through the process.

Stamp duty concessions

In addition to the FHOG, you can access concessions (read: discounts) on the taxes you owe when buying property. When you buy a home, you have to pay stamp duty. But, as a first home buyer, you can often get an exemption or a discount on how much you need to pay. This can save you tens of thousands of dollars, and allow you to put more of your savings into your property purchase. That’s a shortcut we simply love to see.

Check your state or territory’s government website to find out what’s available in your location. In many cases, your lending team will help you apply these concessions, but it helps to be aware so you don’t miss out.

Home Guarantee

The Federal Government’s Home Guarantee includes a suite of subsidies on offer to first home buyers.

Formerly known as the First Home Loan Deposit Scheme, the guarantee helps first home buyers buy property with as little as a 5% deposit. That means you could purchase a $600,000 home with as little as $30,000 upfront.

The idea is to get first home buyers into their first home sooner, by slashing upfront requirements and reducing the time it takes to save up your deposit.

Once you’ve got a 5% deposit, the remaining 15% of the property price is guaranteed by the government, which helps lenders offer loans to first home buyers with less risk. Plus, the scheme saves you paying pricey lenders’ mortgage insurance, which you usually have to pay when buying property with less than a 20% deposit.

You can use the Home Guarantee to purchase any of the following property types – and no, it’s not exclusive to new builds:

an existing house, townhouse or apartment

a house and land package

land and a separate contract to build a home

an off‑the-plan apartment or townhouse

How to apply for the Home Guarantee Scheme

You’re probably thinking – what’s the catch? Unfortunately, there is a small one. The First Home Guarantee only has a limited number of places each year, and you need to secure one of the 35,000 spaces each year to be able to get the benefits.

The better news is your broker or lender can help support you with the application. Find out more here.

Regional Home Guarantee (RHG)

New in this year’s Federal Budget, the Regional Home Guarantee offers 10,000 additional places to first home buyers and those who have not owned a home in the last five years. The caveat is that you must buy or build a new home in a regional area.

Family Home Guarantee Scheme (FHGS)

If you’re a single parent, there’s another area of the First Home Guarantee that might flap your flares: the Family Home Guarantee Scheme. It works in a similar way to the First Home Loan Deposit Scheme, but allows eligible single parents to purchase a family home with as little as a 2% deposit.

There are 5,000 places available each year, and you can use it to buy any of the following property types:

an existing house, townhouse or apartment

a house and land package

land and a separate contract to build a home

an off‑the-plan apartment or townhouse

Property price caps vary by location – use this postcode search tool to find out about limits in your area.

You do need to apply, just like the FHLDS, and places are limited. You can find out more about the scheme here.

First Home Super Save Scheme (FHSSS)

For a slightly different flavour on the subsidy smorgasbord, the First Home Super Saver Scheme helps you build a bigger deposit by using the tax environment of your super fund.

Wait, the what?

Don’t worry, we’ve got you. In your super fund, income is only taxed at 15%, whereas outside of super, your income is taxed at your marginal rate – which could be up to 45%, depending on how much you earn. For most of us, it’ll sit somewhere on a sliding scale of 19% - 32.5%.

The FHSSS you park your deposit savings in your super fund, and then release them when you’re ready to buy your property.

You can park up to $15,000 per financial year in your super fund, but these can’t be the payments that come from your employer. They must be additional contributions that you’re putting into your fund either before tax, or after tax.

Let’s say you want to save $20,000 towards your home deposit every year. You could move $15,000 of this into your super fund, and release it when you’re ready to buy. Doing so could reduce the amount of tax you’re paying and free up more money towards your deposit. Plus, in your super fund it’s locked away for safe keeping, so you’re not tempted to spend.

Be sure you’re OK with it staying there, though. If you choose not to use it for property, that’s fine – but it has stay in your super fund. You can’t just have it back for a holiday or a car emergency.

Check with your super fund to see if they have a FHSSS calculator, and find out how much you could save.

Things to watch out for:

You need to apply to be a part of the scheme

Your employer contributions cannot be released under the scheme

Your contributions are still subject to contribution caps

You can only release your funds once

You must occupy the property you purchase (or do so within 12 months if works are required to make it practical to move in).

Your funds can only be released to purchase property. If you don’t buy a home, you can’t access the money.

Find out more at the ATO website.

Can you apply for more than one first home buyer subsidy?

You betcha! Fill your boots – you can apply for multiple schemes and subsidies, and in some cases benefit from multiple at once. For example, getting the First Home Owner Grant and pocketing a tasty stamp duty concession on top. Doing so can save you big money on your property purchase, and get you in your first home sooner. Ah, there’s the velvet couch again.

Pheweee! If you don’t need a spicy marg after that landslide of information, we’re impressed. Now, Upsider. Armed with this juicy, juicy information, go forth and conquer your property purchase with some extra cheddar in your back pocket!

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_saving-your-home-deposit_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Saving Your Home Deposit

Saving for your very first home? Understanding what size deposit you need can be tricky, so we’ve broken it down into a few simple steps.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Let’s be honest, you're about to save a whole lot of money—it's normal to feel a bit intimidated. So let’s start with the basics to help get you on the right track.

How much deposit do I really need?

Your deposit is proof that you can save money and that you're committed to paying a mortgage off. Many lenders will want 10 or 20% of the price of a home. Others will let you take out a home loan with a 5% deposit.

So, if you reckon the sort of place you'll want will require a loan of $550,000, at 5% you'll need to save $550,000 x 5% = $27,500 plus extras like stamp duty. At 20%, that figure becomes $110,000.

A smaller deposit can be a great way to get started but it does come with greater risk. As an example, interest rates can change and impact how much you'll need to repay. Plus, as property prices fluctuate, your loan to value ratio could change too, and you could even end up owing more than your place is worth.

What's 'loan to value ratio’?

This is an expression of how much of the value of your property is yours, and how much you still owe to your lender. It's the loan amount divided by the value of your home.

The higher the ratio (the closer to 1:1), the greater the risk to the lender. To offset this risk, if you start out owing more than 80% you'll almost certainly have to pay for a thing called 'lender's mortgage insurance' (LMI). It's a once-off premium that gets added to your loan at the beginning.

A larger deposit will help you avoid this extra cost. If you can manage to save a 20% deposit (and only borrow 80% of the purchase price), you won't have to take out LMI and you can instead spend that money on the important things.

On the other hand, some people decide that rising costs of buying in their area make LMI likely cheaper than waiting to save. It's important to know the risks either way, and get financial advice if things don't feel crystal clear.

Can I get a First Home Owner grant?

Australia has a national first home owner grant scheme, which was introduced to offset the GST in 2000. Each state and territory has its own rules, so the best place to start is the First Home Owner Grant website, which can direct you. If you're buying for the first time, there's a chance you're eligible for some help.

For example, in Victoria, if you're buying a brand new property worth up to $750,000, you might be eligible for a $10,000 grant. There are also some concessions based on what you're buying, whether you're receiving a pension, and other factors.

In NSW, the First Home Buyers Assistance Scheme can give you partial or full exemption on paying stamp duty. Queensland offers first-time buyers a grant of $15,000 towards brand new homes.

Where do I start?

Creating a Home Saver in-app is a great first step. Set up Payment Splits to direct money to your Home Saver as soon as you get paid to start saving automatically. And to get your savings really humming along, add Boosted Round Ups to your Home Saver and any odd extra cash whenever you can and you’ll be well on the way to nailing down your deposit.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_the-people-youll-meet_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
The People You'll Meet

Buying property involves a fair few different characters. Let’s meet some of the different people you will bump shoulders with on your way, and how each of them can help you find the place of your dreams.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

When you're ready to crack on with the actual buying of the new home, you'll quickly realise that it's a team effort. Here are some people you might get to know as you continue on your journey, and some you mightn’t need to get to know.

Real estate agents

When you start poking around at some places, you'll be meeting your fair share of real estate agents.

They work for the people who are selling their home, not you, so keep that in mind. But their particular set of skills can help you as a buyer, too. They've got eyes on heaps of different properties, including ones that might not be cleaned up for sale yet. They also tend to know the local area inside out, so they'll be able to answer questions you have about your preferred location.

Let them know what you're looking for. When you feel like you're a serious buyer who knows what they want, let them know: they might hook you up with off-market properties before other people have a chance to see them.

Mortgage Brokers

There’s a few reasons why people might feel compelled to speak with a broker when looking for a home loan: they're not familiar with the lingo, want to avoid mistakes, or think they'll get a better range of loan options.

Here's what they don't tell you: brokers rely on the assumption that you need them. The truth is, you don't.

Brokers don't work for just one lender—they might even be owned by or have major shareholders that are lenders themselves. They use an approved panel of lenders to provide a shortlist that suits your needs, but they don't scan the entire market to find the best option for you.

Plus, they get paid commissions by lenders, meaning they're unlikely to shortlist options that don't pay them. And those commissions? They're paid by lenders initially, but often by you over the long run (see our article on what a comparison rate is to learn more).

Loan Officers

Loan officers work for banks and other lenders, aiming to find the best loan for you at the place they work. But why rely on someone else when you can manage everything yourself? That's where Up Home comes in—an easy, transparent home loan you can manage right from your phone. With Up, you don't need a broker. You just need the confidence to do it yourself. And if you ever need a hand, our Home Guides are here to help you every step of the way. Just shoot them a message in-app via Talk to Us.

Accountants and Financial Advisors

When you want to set your loan up, your lender might ask for documentation like tax returns, pay slips, proof of earnings or bank balances, and an accountant can help you sort out this type of thing in advance. This is especially useful if you're self-employed or have an irregular income.

A financial advisor can look at your whole money situation and come up with a strategy about how you can have more of it. That could include buying property, but it covers much more ground than that. If your circumstances are likely to change, or you have extra money to play with after getting an absolute deal on your home, they can help you figure out what to do with it in the long term. And it's great to know that kind of info upfront.

Building Inspectors

Building and pest inspectors are people you hire to check over a property before you sign a contract to buy it. They go under the house, inside the roof and all kinds of other claustrophobic spaces with spiders in them.

They're looking for anything that might make your new place a nightmare - structural issues, safety hazards, termites and so on. It's important to get this done properly. Inspectors know exactly what they're looking for and can access parts of the house others can’t.

It can be frustrating to pay for an inspection on a property you might not buy, but it'd be a lot more frustrating if you bought a home that was also the home to a termite colony.

In some states, the seller has to pay for an inspection and make it available to anyone who wants to read it. In others, you have to pay for your own. You can sometimes save a few $$ by chatting to the real estate agent: they might be willing to hook you up with another potential buyer so you can go halves with them.

Conveyancers and solicitors

Want to make an offer? You'll need to chat with a conveyancer or solicitor: you literally can't buy a property without one. Once you find the place you want to buy, and win an auction or have an offer accepted, you'll need someone to check the contract and legally make it yours.

Many legal property transfers can be done (conveyed) by a conveyancer. Unlike a solicitor, they're not a lawyer, but have special qualities and a particular set of skills. If your contract is more complex - for example, multiple titles, overlays, conditions - you might need a solicitor instead.

Whoever you choose, they'll also help out by reading your contract of sale and making sure it's all above board before you sign, which is especially important if you've never seen one before. They literally do this all day, and they'll be able to call you up and talk through anything that looks shifty.

Buyer's Agents

A buyer's agent is someone you can employ if you so choose to find the perfect property based on your criteria. Unlike the real estate agent, they work for you. Because you pay them, they have a vested interest in finding the right home, not just any home.

Buyer's agents have existing relationships with real estate agents, so they might be able to find properties you can't find on your own. For example, they can often get wind of off-market properties before anyone else does, and the agents tend to pay attention to them when they call. But they can also go see places for you, bid at auction, negotiate a deal or educate you on elements of the buying process.

Agents sound fancy and certainly do add to your costs, but they work with all kinds of property hunters, including first-time owners, and can be a great investment for finding the perfect home.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_the-plain-english-guide-to-home-loan-words_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Plain English guide to home loans
Amortisation

Mort is Latin for ‘dead’ and amortisation means something’s getting killed off. If you ‘amortise’ over 20 years, that’s how long it will take to unalive your loan.

Arrears

If you’re ‘in arrears’, you promised to pay something back and are now running behind. If you get ‘into arrears’ on an Up Home loan, don’t stew on it – hit Talk To Us and we can tackle it as a team.

Asset

Something valuable. If you own a home, a car or a 1st edition Charizard card, you have an asset. Congrats!

Break fee

A fee you might have to pay to your lender if you agree to stick with them in exchange for a certain rate, and then decide not to.

Break fees have to be super clear in any contract you sign, so read those docs and you won’t get shocked.

Comparison Rate

The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can compare. Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different and a really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more!

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Credit approval

You know how you might be happy lending money to your super responsible little bro, but absolutely not to your mate Nathan cause he’s just a liability on a Friday night?

When a lender runs ‘credit approval’ they’re getting to know you, your finances, and your saving and spending habits, so they can decide if you’re a good bet to lend to, or… a bit of a Nathan.

Deposit

When you buy a home, the deposit is the part you personally contribute, as opposed to what you borrow from the bank. Whatever you put down as a deposit, you then own in the home. You got equity, superstar. Speaking of….

Discharge

Look, we prefer to call it Leaving Home, but this is the official word for when you leave your home loan. Either because you pay it off completely or because you leave one home loan provider for another.

Equity

The amount of equity you have in your home is the value of the home, minus what you owe on your loan. It can actually change over time without you doing anything! Say you buy a place for $250,000 and borrow $50,000. You have $200K in equity. If your place goes up in value to $300K you now have $250K in equity.

Household Expenditure Measure (HEM)

The Household Expenditure Measure is a ‘best guess’ method at figuring out what you’re likely to have to spend based on stuff like your age, income, whether you’re single or in a relationship, and whether you have kids. Your real situation is unlikely to be exactly your HEM, but the HEM gives your lender a ballpark to start with.

It’s worked out quarterly and published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics.

Interest

This is how much you pay a lender for the right to use their money. The cost goes up and down depending on, for example, how much that lender has to pay to get that money from bigger lenders, like the Australian Reserve Bank.

Lenders mortgage insurance (LMI)

Lender’s Mortgage Insurance is a once off insurance premium (something you have to pay, but only once) that protects your lender in case you can’t make your mortgage repayments. There's a bit more on LMI here if you'd like to dig in.

Loan-to-value ratio (LVR)

The value of your loan divided by the value of the property you’re buying with it.

If you buy a place for say $400K and have $200K to put down as your deposit (woah there fancy pants) then your LVR is 50%. There's a full read on LVR here.

Mortgage

This is just a fancy word for a home loan. Not sure why this word needs to exist, but there you go. English doesn’t always make sense.

Lender

Your lender is the business, or really really rich mate, who gives you all the money. If you get an Up Home loan, our parent company Bendigo Bank is officially your lender.

Offset

A separate account you can keep your own money in, that your lender treats as if you’d paid on your loan. That saves you $$ in interest and can get you to home ownership faster. If you have an Up Home loan on your own, your personal Up spending and all your personal Up Savers are offsets. If you have a 2Up loan, all your personal and shared spending accounts, and all your 2Up Savers, are offsets. Easy.

Pre-approval

This is when a lender gives you a simple idea of what you could likely borrow based on information like your living situation, financial situation (income, expenses, debts, etc.), current interest rates and where you’re looking to buy. Pre-approval usually isn’t a final agreement on a loan. The details of a pre-approval can vary quite a lot between different lenders, and they almost always come with important conditions that you should read carefully. Hit the Up Home button in your Up tab to get simple, conditional pre-approval, without a credit check. When you’re ready to buy and want full approval on a loan, you’ll already be one step ahead.

Principal

The actual amount you borrow. As you pay this back, you own more and more of your home. Not all of the money you pay will go on your principal – some goes to your lender as interest – but anything you put on the principal belongs to you as equity.

Principal and Interest (sometimes called ‘P&I’)

Most home loans, and all Up Home loans, are ‘Principal and Interest’. That means that some of the money you pay goes to the bank and some of it pays off your loan so eventually the place can be yours.

Some people, particularly investors, get interest only loans and take a bet that while they’re just paying interest, the property will grow enough in value to justify the purchase. Most people who want to actually live in the house they buy, want to work towards owning it so they can retire in it and fill it with cats. (Just us? OK.)

Rates

A home loan rate refers to how much interest gets charged on your home loan.As an example, a rate of 3% means that over a year, you have to pay 3% of the whole amount you borrowed, back to them as interest.(If the rate changes within the year, there’s more maths involved, but you get the idea).

Redraw

Redraw means ‘drawing’ out money you’ve already paid into your loan. Usually, if you pay extra, you’re allowed to change your mind and have some of the extra money back. More info on how Up gives you free and easy redraw is on this page.

Refinancing

Refinancing is what you do when you already have a home loan, but want a different one. Say you’re on a variable rate with one lender, and you like the look of this new Up Home thing, cause they seem like cool people, so you fire up a chat with Up and get a new loan with them. That’d be refinancing.

Settlement

Settlement is the bit where the actual, real life ownership of a home goes from one person (or business or whatever) to another. It involves a bunch of money – like your deposit – and legal stuff, so you typically get a conveyancer to help you do it and then do what they say. Then someone gives you some keys!

Stamp duty

Stamp duty on a home is a government tax. There used to be actual stamping of documents involved which maybe made people feel better about how expensive it is. Now it all happens online which is easier, but it’s still really really expensive. Sorry.

Valuation

There are people whose job it is to take a look at a house and decide what it’s worth, based on where it is, what style of place, and other stuff.

You can get a place revalued, too, which can be a good idea. Say you pay a 10% deposit and then fix the place up, which improves the value. The different value might push your equity up higher.

Official Cash Rate

The official interest rate set by the Reserve Bank of Australia that determines the cost of loans between banks (yeah, they do this!). The cash rate changes based on economic strength and activity. It then affects the interest rates on borrowing and savings that banks and financial institutions pass onto their customers. Nerd out on the cash rate here.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_time-to-move_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Time to Move

What to expect when you’re finally ready to move into your new home.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

In our last post, we covered some of those "final checks" items, like signing your loan documents and how the money gets transferred to the seller. Now, let's have a practical chat about what you need to do to make shifting your stuff as painless as possible.

Make final inspections

Your contract almost certainly entitles you to a last check of the property in the week leading up to settlement. That gives you a chance to make sure it's still in the same condition it was when you bought it. If it's not, this is when you can ask the vendor to fix it. It can also be a great opportunity to measure up and figure out where furniture might go.

Connect utilities

Arriving at your new home in complete darkness is pretty miserable, so you'll want to make sure you have the essentials ready from the get go.

Depending on what's available at your property, you'll have a few different services to get connected. Start doing this way ahead of time. Get in touch with your suppliers for electricity, gas and internet companies to book a date for everything to be active.

Don't forget—when you pay your bills with Up, late fees become a thing of the past. Up learns your regular charges, predicts when they'll hit, and helps you see how much you really have to spend in the weeks ahead. Set up your Regulars in-app once you've received your first bills.

Let everyone know where you've gone

People need to know where you live now. It's important to change your address details with the electoral commissions, government departments like Medicare and Centrelink, your bank and the road authority. Most of these can be done easily online. Do it close to moving day, so you don't miss anything important.

Speaking of which, you can also pay to have your mail redirected for a period of time after you move. To do that, head on over to the Australia Post website.

Book your removalist

There can be a tricky balance here - sometimes settlement day is delayed, and then you've got a truck going nowhere - but you don't want to leave it too long and miss out. Some people suggest booking the van for a few days after settlement, just in case.

Also, not all removalists are equal, so ask friends and family for recommendations to reduce the risk of stuff getting broken.

Check your pets

If you're moving to a new council area, check the requirements for registering your pets, so they're all set on moving day.

Take possession

This is when you legally become the owner of your property. Congratulations. You made it.

You've already signed most of the documents, but on settlement day there are final signatures and checks to make sure everything has been executed properly. Your conveyancer will make the exchange with your lender and the seller's squad. Now it's yours. You can go get the keys.

Pick up your keys

Once you have your keys, it's a good idea to get the locks changed. Sounds a bit counter-intuitive, but you simply don't know who has a copy. Locksmiths usually cost a couple of hundred bucks but it's nice peace of mind.

That’s that.

If you haven’t already, have a play with our Upgraded Rate calculator. It helps you to see how much time and money you could save over the term of your home loan if you put our automated savings tools to work. There are many different ways Up can help you pay off your loan sooner if you so choose.

Home loans aren’t as scary as they may seem, but there’s no doubt there’s a lot to unpack. The good news—our Up Home Guides are the help we always knew we needed. We’ll be with you throughout your journey whenever you need us.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_understanding-home-loans_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Understanding Home Loans

We’ve broken down some of the more confusing words into plain English, so you know exactly what you’re dealing with.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Home loan language can often feel confusing, but we’re here to help remove some of the mystery.

1. Rates

Every home loan comes with an interest rate. That's how much you pay the bank for using its money to buy something. It's calculated as a percentage of the outstanding loan amount, usually on an annual basis.

The rate you pay will depend on a few different factors. For example, your Loan to Value Ratio, the rate period you agree to, and even being a new customer can all change the rate you'll pay.

Let's say your rate is 6% on a 30-year loan. If you borrow $550,000, you'll pay 6% of that amount in interest on top of the actual amount that gets taken off your loan, or $3,298 per month in total. If you paid that same rate for 30 years, you would pay a total of $637,110 in interest.

There's a lot of calculators out there that can give you an idea of what your repayments might look like (checkout Up's here) and how much it could change if interest rates go up or down.

a. Comparison rates

When you're doing your own research into home loans, you'll probably see one interest rate listed and then a 'comparison rate' next to it. A comparison rate uses the advertised rate but bundles in all the extras you'll be paying, which includes fees and charges. It's designed to give you a more accurate idea of the cost of the loan, so you can easily compare it to rates from other banks.

There can be a lot of hassling and haggling that goes on in the rate world, but with Up Home, existing Upsiders and new ones all get the same variable rate, and it’s always the best rate we have to offer.

b. 'Fixed' vs 'Variable' rates

Interest rates change, like the rest of the economy. They respond to supply and demand, geopolitical factors, and even unexpected events, like global pandemics.

That means there's an element of risk, so the bank gives you the option of setting a 'fixed' rate for a period of time, or having a rate that varies as the market changes.

A fixed rate home loan offers a dependable, predictable payment. You won't be able to fix it forever, but you may have the option to keep your interest rate the same for 1-5 years, during which time your repayment will be exactly the same.

Some fixed-rate loans are also stricter about how you can pay them off, including whether you'll be able to contribute more funds when you have them. At the end of the fixed term, it will usually revert to a variable rate.

A variable rate home loan tends to be more flexible. The interest rate changes over time, which means your repayments can go up and down. One up side is that banks are usually more comfy with letting you pay a variable loan off faster; another is that if rates go down, you benefit.

The flip side of having lots of flexibility is that if something catastrophic happens in the market, you could find your repayment becomes less affordable, so you'll have to factor that in.

2. Principal & interest vs interest only

Your loan is made up of two elements: the principal and the interest.

The principal is how much you actually borrowed to buy your actual home. It doesn't include the extra amount you pay to the bank on top of that, which is the interest we mentioned earlier.

A principal and interest loan is one where you put money towards both the actual cost of your home and the interest you have to pay the bank. That means the money you owe on your principal is also reduced over time. If you continue to pay a principal and interest loan for the whole loan period, you will own your home outright at the end.

An interest-only loan is one where you don't pay any money towards the principal. You just pay interest to the bank in exchange for living in your home. The principal amount you owe stays the same for the lifetime of your loan, and at the end of the loan term, you'll still owe that money. If you sell, you'll use the sale price to pay out the loan and keep any leftovers.

Usually, people tend to use interest only loans for investing in property; principal and interest for homes they plan to live in.

3. Repayment frequency

When you get a mortgage, you agree to make regular loan payments to your bank, but most will let you choose the frequency - say, monthly or fortnightly.

This can really help with budgeting. If you get paid weekly or fortnightly, you might opt to pay at the same interval. If your pay is irregular or unpredictable, you might make deposits into your home Saver and make one bigger repayment each month. You may also have the option to make extra repayments during flush times, which will reduce the amount you owe and shorten the life of your loan.

Pro tip: if you split your monthly payment into two, paying fortnightly rather than monthly can add a sneaky extra payment or two into a standard calendar year, and shorten the length of your loan.

4. Offset accounts

Having a home loan can be a bit of a juggle. You need to prioritise your mortgage repayments, but you also need to eat, keep the lights on, and treat yourself from time to time. An offset account can reduce the cost of your repayments without taking away your money forever.

The way it works is: you have a home loan account and an offset account. The offset account is just like a savings account, but it's linked to your loan. The money in the account counts towards (or is 'offset' against) the total amount you owe. For example, if you have a $320,000 loan but you also have $10,000 in your offset account, the interest you'll pay is calculated on $320,000 - $10,000 = $310,000. This adjusted balance, known as the Offset Loan Balance, is the one used to calculate your interest.

Dropping your pay into the offset account can be a great habit if you want to pay less interest (you do). And because it's a savings account, you'll still have access to the money in there when you need it. With Up, you can create up to 50 Savers, all of which become free 100% offsets on both fixed and variable loans.

Plus, your deposits are protected by the government's Financial Claims Scheme (FCS) for up to $250,000. This is peace of mind you won’t get with non-bank lenders.

5. Redraw facilities

As we've mentioned, you might have the option to make extra payments on your home loan, when you can afford to. That's great - it brings down the length of your loan.

But what if you get stuck? What if you make an extra repayment and then an unexpected expense rears its head, and the money is gone?

A redraw facility allows you to withdraw that extra money, if you need it. Any amount you've paid over and above your regular repayment commitments can be taken out and used for other things. Some banks, like Up, don't charge a fee to do this, though be mindful that those savings you made earlier will be lost. 

6. The difference between redraw and offset

We can hear you asking - isn't that just an offset account? It's true that there are similarities, but they're not the same.

An offset account is yours. It's money you never actually pay towards your home loan. It stays in its separate account and you use it to buy what you need, like a regular transaction account. You can have your wages paid directly into it, unlike a mortgage account. As long as there's money in the account, you'll pay less interest than you would if it was empty.

A redraw facility isn't a bank account, it's part of your loan's features. You shoot extra money across to your mortgage account and reduce the overall balance, which is why you pay less interest. But you can't just spend that money without first transferring it back to your transaction account. It's hanging out with your regular mortgage payments until further notice.

Money in an offset is legally yours; redraw is money you've already paid the bank, but the bank says it's OK to borrow it again. So they don't HAVE to let you have that money back, and if something goes badly wrong they may not.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_learn_working-out-how-much-you-can-afford_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Working out how much you can afford

First home ownership can feel complicated, especially if you have an irregular income or a small deposit. Let’s get an idea of how much you can borrow.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Whether you're eyeing off an apartment in town or the quiet suburban dream, owning your own place is a huge, exciting commitment. But to avoid heartache while scouring real estate listings, let’s first get a ballpark on what you can afford.

Calculate your current living expenses

When you ask a bank about a home loan, the first thing they’ll do is figure out your 'borrowing power.' This is basically how much you can borrow, plus your deposit, to make your home-owning dreams come true.

They'll look at your whole financial picture—not just your income and savings, but also your expenses. This means everything you regularly spend on: rent, car payments, transport, food, phone bills etc. They’ll also consider any other debts, like car loans or credit card limits.

As an Upsider, you can get a head start by using the Home Zone—our super-fast in-app tool. It uses your Up spending insights to help you understand what you can afford to borrow.

Play around with some calculators

You know your monthly spending better than anyone. This will help determine what you can borrow.

A lender will look at your spending, interest rates, the size of your deposit, whether you're applying alone or with a partner, and more. Income type matters too —casual, irregular income might lead to different borrowing amounts compared to a steady full-time salary. And different banks will come up with different numbers.

Your borrowing power also depends on whether you choose a principal and interest or interest-only loan, and whether you go for a fixed or variable rate. Don’t forget to include additional costs like establishment fees, conveyancers, insurance, and stamp duty.

Essentially, a lender just wants to make sure you can make mortgage repayments now and in the future, especially if interest rates rise or your income fluctuates.

Use the Home Zone in-app to easily calculate how much you can borrow. Just answer a few simple questions about your goals and current financial situation and you’ll know roughly what you can borrow and what to strive for.

Decide how much you’re comfortable repaying

You don't have to borrow to the top of your limits. You should feel comfortable you're not over-committing or changing your wants and needs to suit anyone else's plan.

The general consensus is that a safe estimate for mortgage repayments is about 30% of your income. So, if you're earning $50,000 p.a., you might allocate about $1300 a month to paying off your new place.

But maybe that's not right for you. Maybe you want to keep a bit in the tank, knowing that your income fluctuates or that you might want to travel for 6 months. There’s nothing wrong with deciding you'd be more comfortable with a smaller mortgage repayment.

Playing around with figures can help you strike the balance between your budget and your heart. It's also totally reasonable to give a few lenders a call and talk through numbers without a clear intent to borrow right now. With a clearer picture of your finances, you'll know where to set your 'from' and 'to' price filters to avoid disappointment.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_refinance_.txt ===

Change things Up. Refinance made easy.

Bring your home in-house with Up Home. Let our savings tools work their magic and make paying off your home loan easy.

Let's price it simply.
A great rate with no monthly fees.

We offer a single variable rate, or fixed rates if that's your thing. No tricky pricing, no sneaky fees and no secret handshake required. Rates last updated on 17 December, 2024.

Up Home Variable RateUp Home Fixed Rate
6.00% p.a.
6
.
0
0
%
PA
%
p.a

Current annual & comparison rate

Quick, clear communication and upfront added cost calculation means you’ll always be confident you're getting the best deal.

See Our Rates

Multiple offsets

Don’t cramp your savings style.

Create up to 50 Savers that automatically flip into free offsets — maintain your financial flow and grow with what you know.

Keep your budget working for you, and for the life of your loan with Up Home.

Designed for Up

Connection where it counts.

Up Home is designed to live, work and thrive seamlessly with your current Up setup.

Switching to Up Home means your loan is injected with system-wide integration and powerful tools that boost savings, eliminate money-stress and help you craft your ideal budget.

Low effort application

Lift your game, with just a finger.

Refinancing to Up Home is easy — just phone it in!

Complete our mobile-friendly application process and we'll do the rest. A home loan without the mental gymnastics.

Ready to switch to Up Home?

If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

Upsider experiences.

Don't just take our word for it, hear directly from Upsiders on their experience with Up Home.

Holly + Mitchell

City: Eaton, WA

Age: 25, 28

A seamless experience.

“We refinanced to Up since we were already using them for our everyday banking and the rate was much better than our other bank... I do love having everything in one place and all our savers become offset accounts too.”

George + Vanessa

City: Sydney, NSW

Age: 38

Super easy, really smooth.

“Very straight forward. I’ve refinanced before with multiple banks and process generally take 30-60 days depending on how complex your loan is. With UP I was approved the next day after applying, documents signed and returned a week later by mail...

Read More

Rob

City: Perth, WA

Age: 30

A different experience to every other bank.

“When you consider the "packages" that you have to pay with other banks to get multiple offsets, etc it starts to work out in your favour.”

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_refinance_UpsiderExperiences_.txt ===

Upsider experiences.

Don't just take our word for it, hear directly from Upsiders on their experience with Up Home.

Holly + Mitchell

City: Eaton, WA

Age: 25, 28

A seamless experience.

“We refinanced to Up since we were already using them for our everyday banking and the rate was much better than our other bank... I do love having everything in one place and all our savers become offset accounts too.”

George + Vanessa

City: Sydney, NSW

Age: 38

Super easy, really smooth.

“Very straight forward. I’ve refinanced before with multiple banks and process generally take 30-60 days depending on how complex your loan is. With UP I was approved the next day after applying, documents signed and returned a week later by mail...

Read More

Rob

City: Perth, WA

Age: 30

A different experience to every other bank.

“When you consider the "packages" that you have to pay with other banks to get multiple offsets, etc it starts to work out in your favour.”

=== home-loans_saver-offsets-and-free-redraw_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Saver Offsets and Free Redraw

Offset accounts: they’re your secret weapon for owning your own home faster. And with Up Home you don’t even have to think about them to get all the good stuff.

If you get a 2Up loan, all your 2Up accounts (both Spending and Savers), as well as your personal Up Spending account, become free offsets: you won’t have to change a thing. If you take out a loan on your own, your individual accounts are all free offsets. Easy.

But what is an offset?

In your everyday life, offsets work just like a regular spending account or Saver. The money in them is yours to use. But before we calculate how much interest you owe on your home loan every month, we subtract the total amount you're keeping in them from your current loan balance.

Say you're paying down a loan of $400k, and you also have a holiday Saver that's grown to $5k, and about $1k that you keep around for groceries and stuff. When your interest is calculated, you'll pay interest on only $394k. It's all calculated daily so it's not exactly that simple — but we reckon you get the idea.

You’ll probably make the same repayment you always did, but a bit more $$ goes towards owning your home, and a bit less to us. Which we are all about, cause the goal here is to get you from Up Home, to your home.

Old school loans usually come with one or two offset accounts, or a redraw facility. You’ll probably pay a monthly fee for the privilege, and they’ll be separate from your regular banking. We feel like just taking the Savers you’ve already set up the way you like them, and making them do a bit more work, makes a bunch more sense for you.

But wait, what’s a redraw facility?

Redraw is another way you can save on interest. You can make extra payments on your loan if you want, pay less interest as a result, and later change your mind and have some of the extra money back.

Redraw is free with Up Home too.

So if paying more on your loan would feel good to you you can put it directly into your loan account. Or if you prefer to keep your money organised with Savers, Saver offsets might be more your style. Or mix them up! It’s up to you, cause every day your money is in one of these accounts reduces the interest you pay on your loan.

Go thrive.

(P.S. though — you won’t also earn bonus interest on Savers like you did when they were regular savings accounts. We’re magic but not that magic).

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_settlement_.txt ===

Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Get Ready To Rumble: Settlement
Get Ready To Rumble: Settlement

Settlement! It’s the special moment, where the keys become yours. Where you become a homeowner. Or, if you’re refinancing, when your new loan begins. Which is also very exciting if somewhat less dramatic.

Let’s break it down so you know what to expect.

What settlement is

If you’re purchasing, settlement is when money goes from you and us, to the seller. The seller gets all the money, you get all the property (!), and your home loan begins. You won’t have to handle any cash. For safety’s sake, we and the conveyancers move it around securely for you.

If you’re refinancing, settlement is when we pay your old lender out for your original home loan, and your new Up Home loan begins.

When settlement happens

When you’re purchasing, settlement depends on the vendors, conveyancers and you. Generally, you negotiate the date with the seller when you’re making your purchase offer – usually settling at between 30 and 90 days. Our solicitor / conveyancer will try their best to meet that date.

If you’re refinancing, the settlement date depends on when both banks have everything they need to transfer the loan. This is generally worked out between the two lenders and can take up to 4 – 6 weeks from the time you notify your old lender.

Step one: getting ID-verified

We’re about to loan you a lot of money, so before we settle, we need to make sure that you are you.

How exactly this happens will vary depending on where you are in Australia. There'll be more info on ID verification in your loan document pack.

Forms forms forms

There’s a little bit of paperwork yet to come from your conveyancer or solicitor, but their job is to walk you through it. We’re here too, if you need us!

Fair warning: some of it may be on paper. Trust us, we’d love to completely eliminate trees from the home loan process. We’re working on it. But we may still have to get your actual physical signature (“wet signature”) on a few different docs, depending on where you live.

The big moment (and the keys!)

At the time set by all those conveyancers and solicitors and bankers and stuff, you’ll be notified that your settlement is done. It might all be as low-key as an app notification through PEXA, the online platform where most conveyancing transactions and lodgements take place.

But it’s a big deal. Congratulations!

As soon as you’ve been notified that settlement is complete, those keys belong to you. It’s between you and the seller (or their real estate agent) to arrange how to go get them. Maybe pick up a bottle of something nice on the way back.

Making your first repayment

When your loan is all set up, your Up Home account will live in your app and you can set up automatic transfers into this account.

Your first home loan repayment is due exactly one month after your loan settles. So if your loan settles on 1 May, your first repayment is due on 1 June.

Even if you’ve chosen to pay your loan off weekly or fortnightly, you just need to have paid what would’ve been the monthly repayment by the end of the month – we don’t mind how you split it.

We’ll show you the balance of your loan, including any redraw available to you if you choose to pay in extra over time.

(Not sure what that is? Fair. Here’s an explainer).

I need more help

Your own conveyancer or solicitor is the best person to answer your settlement related questions. After all, that’s what you’re paying them for.

Or, you can contact our digital legal partners MSA National:

Email: Daniel.Hwang@msanational.com.au

Phone: +61 2 8719 9723

If you’re still hitting information roadblocks, (though we don't think you will), you’re also welcome to get in touch with us in app.

Some Light Reading

These handy (yet often spectacularly wordy) links have more info and forms you may need as you get closer to the big moment. But if you get lost, chat with us! It’s what we’re here for.

Foreign Tax Form

Foreign Tax Glossary

Key Facts Sheet

Our terms and stuff

Up Home Credit Guide

Authorised People to Witness Execution of Mortgage

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== home-loans_variable-rate_.txt ===

A great rate with the smartest home loan to date.

A great rate makes for an easy choice. Get set up with Up Home and control the life of your loan with our powerful auto-saving features and system-wide integration. Experience our award‑winning home loan today.

VARIABLE RATE
Annual & Comparison Rate
6.00%
Apply Now
VARIABLE RATE
Annual & Comparison Rate
6.00%

Free Offsets & Redraw.

Get up to 50 Savers and a joint Spending account that all automatically flip into free 100% offsets. Enjoy free redraw and no application, setup, monthly or annual fees.

Auto-Saving Integration.

Inject your loan with system-wide integration and auto-saving features that help you pay off your loan sooner.

100% Digital.

Complete your application in-app and we’ll handle the rest. Manage your entire loan on your phone, from the couch or on the go.

Meet our Up Home Guides.

Our expert Up Home Guides are here to help you get set up without a fuss. Chat with our locally based team in-app via the Talk to Us tab today.

A first-class experience.

Winner of the 2024 Mozo Expert Choice Award for the best ‘offset home loan’ on the market.

Upgrade your Home Loan

If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).

=== hook_up_a_mate_.txt ===

Be a Great Mate

Getting your mates on Up makes it easier than ever to send and request money from them! Make IOUs a thing of the past with Pay Requests, forget about BSBs and account numbers with $Upnames and split bills faster with Slices.

Even better (or best?) when your mates join, they'll get all the benefits of being an Upsider. You're giving them tools they can use to help them master their money, smash their savings goals and simplify their lives.

To top it off, when you invite a mate, you'll get $10 when they become an Upsider. Each year you remain an Upsider your referral bonus will grow in value by an additional $1 (up to a max of $15).

See the full T&Cs below.

Unlock SMS Invites
Download the latest version of the app.
Verify your email address. You can resend your verification email from the Hook Up a Mate screen.
Make a purchase using a digital wallet or your Up card.
That's it. You should be able to invite friends now by hitting the big orange bar.
Activate Your Personalised Sharing Page

As well as inviting your mates by SMS, you can turn on your personalised Shareable Hook Up a Mate page and get custom link you can share on Social and Group Chats. It'll look a bit like this:

https://hook.up.me/your_up_name

Once you've set up your Upname and qualified for Hook Up a Mate head to the Hook Up a Mate screen in-app and tap your profile icon in the bottom right of the screen to enable it.

Heads up that by enabling your Shareable Hook Up a Mate page, your Upname and profile photo will be shared. If you’d rather keep that information private, you’re better off sticking with sending your mates an SMS via the direct ‘Invite friends’ flow in‑app.

If you do opt-in and later change your mind you can opt back out at any time (tap the three dots on the Hook Up a Mate screen in the app) and your shareable page will be deactivated.

Conditions Of Use

Hook Up a Mate is designed so that Upsiders can spread the word about Up (ABN 11 068 049 178) in the spirit of genuine advocacy and referral.

Invites expire automatically if the invitee has not become an Up customer (having passed ‘KYC’ and ID verification requirements) after 14 days. To receive the sign-on bonus, the invite code needs to be provided through the Up app.

We may at our absolute discretion cancel a “Hook Up a Mate” payment without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances in which we may do so, we may cancel this feature under the following circumstances:

We believe you are acting in a fraudulent, deceptive or misleading way.
Your conduct is in breach of the terms and conditions.
We close your account.
We believe the security or quality of the Up app or related services is threatened.
You have unpaid fees or charges, or direct deposit dishonours on your account.
You are sending an excessive number of unsolicited invites.
Conditions for inviters

To enable the sending of invites you must be an active Up customer with a verified email address and have made one or more purchases with Up. You will receive a notification once you qualify.

To enable your shareable Hook Up a Mate page, you’ll need to also have set up your Upname and have opted to share your profile picture, Upname and the length of time you’ve been an Upsider.

A once off bonus payment will be paid to you when the person you invite joins Up and becomes a customer from 12:00pm AEDT 3 April 2024. In your first year as an Upsider the standard value of this bonus payment is $10. After 1 year as an Upsider the value is $11, after 2 years it becomes $12, and so on each year with incremental increases of $1 up to a cap of $15. We’ll let you know when you hit these milestones in‑app.

Conditions for invitees

A once off bonus payment will also be paid to invitees when they join Up and become a customer (by passing KYC) from 12:00pm AEDT 3 April 2024. In the inviter’s first year as an Upsider the standard value of this bonus payment for each invitee is $10. After 1 year as an Upsider that becomes $11 for the invitee, after 2 years it becomes $12, and so on each year that passes up to a maximum cap of $15. We’ll let you know when you hit these milestones in‑app.

Conditions for invite codes

If you have signed up using an invite code or sharing link (which may resolve to an invite code), you will be told what that code or link entitles you to before completion of sign up. Please note that due to caching on some social media sites, artwork shown may show a higher value than the amount eligible.

Bonus payments associated with invite codes or links will only be paid on successful sign-up and creation of your new Up account and satisfaction of any qualifying criteria.

Invite codes may be cancelled at any time after they are issued. This offer only applies to individuals opening a new Up Everyday Account.

More Questions?
I don’t have any more invites. How can I get more?

When you unlock Hook Up a Mate you’re awarded a number of invites. To get more, you’ll need the people you invite to accept those invites. Invites do expire after a period of time though, but the best way to get more invites is to make sure you’ve explained why you love Up to your friends before you send invites to them.

When do I get my reward?

You will receive a payment once your friend has fully completed their sign up.

I was invited but I didn’t get a bonus?

Most of the time this means that you didn’t sign up using the phone number your friend invited. Unfortunately, we can only provide the bonus to customers who have been invited via this system, have signed up using the phone number invited. You will however, be able to send invites yourself once you qualify and you will be eligible for any bonuses linked to invites you send.

I haven’t received a bonus from a friend who signed up

In the Hook Up a Mate screen you will see which mates have signed up. You will only be eligible for the bonus once your friends have fully completed their sign up. Your friends will need to ensure they are signing up with the same phone number that you referred. If they sign up with a different phone number, neither of you will be eligible for the bonus.

Why do some Upsiders have a higher referral bonus than me?

Your referral bonus amount is tied to your Upsider age (i.e. tenure as a customer). If you’ve been an Up customer for less than 1 year it’ll be at the base value of $10. After that, it increases each year in value (for both the inviter and invitee) by an additional $1 up to a maximum cap of $15.

Why has my referral bonus suddenly gone up?

From time to time this may temporarily increase as part of a particular promotion. Keep your eyes on our newsletter and socials for when these promotions may start and finish, or you can check in-app on the Hook Up a Mate screen.

Last updated 3 April 2024

=== how-to_recover-your-account_.txt ===

Recover Your Account

If you’ve been locked out of your account select one of the options below to get help recovering access or registering a new device.

If you need a different kind of help, we’re here 👋
Send us a message via ‘Talk to Us’ in your Up app, or email support@up.com.au if you don’t have access.

Same Number

Register a new device or Recover your Account with your registered mobile number

Read how

New Number

Register a new device or Recover your Account using a different mobile number

Read how

Manual Verification

Recover your Account by submitting ID for manual review

Read how

Find Your Recovery Code

What’s an Account Recovery Code and where to find it

Read how

Troubleshooting

Some useful tips if you get stuck

Read how

If you need a different kind of help, we’re here 👋
Send us a message via ‘Talk to Us’ in your Up app, or email support@up.com.au if you don’t have access.

=== how-to_recover-your-account_find-code_.txt ===

Find your account recovery code

Track down your Account Recovery code to get back into your account.

How to Recover Your Account
What Is An Account Recovery Code?

Your Account Recovery Code is a unique, 12-digit code that is sent to your registered email once you've verified your email address.

In most cases, this one-time code can be used to help you regain access to your account. Each time you successfully recover your account, a new recovery code is sent to you via email.

Verify Your Email Address

When you signed up we sent you an email asking you to verify your email address. To complete the verification you'll just need to click the ‘Verify Email’ button in that email.

Where Can I Find My Code?

Your Account Recovery code was sent to the verified email address linked to your Up Account.

If you can't find it, try searching the email subject line; 'Verify the email address associated with your Up account' or 'Verify your Up email address'. You can also try to search the email addresses welcome@up.com.au or noreply@up.com.au in your favourite email client.

From time to time spam filters can be a little strong. Some emails may accidentally show in your spam or junk inbox, so have a look in there as well.

Lost Your Code?

Your Account Recovery code is unique and only sent to your verified email once. Only once you've successfully used a code for an Account Recovery are you sent another code.

If you're unable to find your Account Recovery code, tap 'I've lost my recovery code' in your app to begin a Manual Account Recovery. You'll be prompted to take a selfie with your ID. Once submitted our Recovery Experts will review your submission.

Troubleshooting

Some useful tips if you get stuck

Read how

Not What You’re Looking For?
How to Recover Your Account

If you need a different kind of help, we’re here 👋
Send us a message via ‘Talk to Us’ in your Up app, or email support@up.com.au if you don’t have access.

=== how-to_recover-your-account_manual-verification_.txt ===

Recover Your Account With Manual Verification

Recover your account by submitting your ID for our Recovery Experts to review.

Other Ways To Recover

We'll need to confirm your identity using your Driver Licence, Photo ID or Passport. You'll need to take photos with physical copies of your ID.

If you don't have a valid form of ID, please email us at support@up.com.au.

Step 1.
If you've arrived here from trying to recover your account in some other way, proceed onto the next step.
Otherwise, see other ways to recover - you may not need a manual verification
Step 2.
Select the form of ID you'd like to recover with
Follow the prompts in-app to take the necessary photographs with your ID
Make sure all your details are clearly visible, not blurry and not obstructed. If you're having trouble taking the photo clearly, ask a mate for help.
Step 3.
Select a new passcode and confirm it. This passcode will become active once your manual recovery has been approved.
Step 4.
Your submission will be reviewed by our support team and you'll be notified of the outcome
Find Your Recovery Code

What’s an Account Recovery Code and where to find it

Read how

Troubleshooting

Some useful tips if you get stuck

Read how

Not What You’re Looking For?
Other Ways To Recover

If you need a different kind of help, we’re here 👋
Send us a message via ‘Talk to Us’ in your Up app, or email support@up.com.au if you don’t have access.

=== how-to_recover-your-account_new-number_.txt ===

Recover Your Account Using A New Mobile Number

Register a new device or Recover your Account using a new mobile number that’s different to the number registered with your account.

Other Ways To Recover
Step 1.
Firstly, download the Up app or update it to make sure you have the latest version.
As you already have an account, tap 'I've been here before'.
Step 2.
Tap "I have a new number".
Step 3.
Enter the number currently linked to your account.
Enter your date of birth.
If you can't remember the mobile number linked to your account, please email us with:
your full name
date of birth
your new mobile number
to support@up.com.au.
Step 4.
Enter your new phone number and the verification code we send you via SMS.
Step 5.
Enter your account recovery code. This code was emailed to you after you verified your email address, or after your last successful account recovery. If you need help finding your code, see some hints and tips.
Enter your passcode.
You're all done 👏
Can't find your recovery code? Tap "I've lost my recovery code" to proceed to a Manual Account Recovery.Can't remember your passcode? Tap "I forgot my passcode" to proceed to a Manual Account Recovery.
Find Your Recovery Code

What’s an Account Recovery Code and where to find it

Read how

Troubleshooting

Some useful tips if you get stuck

Read how

Not What You’re Looking For?
Other Ways To Recover

If you need a different kind of help, we’re here 👋
Send us a message via ‘Talk to Us’ in your Up app, or email support@up.com.au if you don’t have access.

=== how-to_recover-your-account_same-number_.txt ===

Recover Your Account Using The Same Mobile Number

How to register a new device or get back into your Account with the mobile number registered with your account.

Other Ways To Recover
Step 1.
Firstly, download the Up app or update it to make sure you have the latest version.
As you already have an account, tap 'I've been here before'.
Step 2.

If you're changing your mobile number, click here to Recover Your Account With A New Mobile Number

When prompted, enter the mobile number linked to your account and press 'Next'
Enter the verification code we send you via SMS.
Step 3.
If you know your passcode, enter it here. You're all done 👏
If you don't remember your passcode, tap "I forgot my passcode" and then "Begin acccount recovery".
Step 4.
Enter your account recovery code. This code was emailed to you after you verified your email address, or after your last successful account recovery. If you need help finding your code, see some hints and tips
Press "Next", then enter your date of birth
If you can't find your recovery code, tap "I've lost my recovery code" to proceed to a Manual Account Recovery
Step 5.
Enter your new passcode and confirm it
You're all done 👏
Find Your Recovery Code

What’s an Account Recovery Code and where to find it

Read how

Troubleshooting

Some useful tips if you get stuck

Read how

Not What You’re Looking For?
Other Ways To Recover

If you need a different kind of help, we’re here 👋
Send us a message via ‘Talk to Us’ in your Up app, or email support@up.com.au if you don’t have access.

=== how-to_recover-your-account_troubleshooting_.txt ===

Account Recovery Troubleshooting

Here's what to do if you get stuck

How to Recover Your Account
Number Has Been Blocked Due To Too Many Attempts

You've tried too many times and have now exceeded the limit.

Please email us with your full name, date of birth & the mobile number registered to your account to support@up.com.au.

Couldn’t Find An Account Matching Your Details

We're unable to verify your identity based on the information you've provided.

Please email us with your full name, date of birth & the mobile number registered to your account to support@up.com.au.

Couldn’t Find An Account Linked To This Number

The mobile number you've entered was not recognised as a number linked to an existing Up account.

Please email us with your full name, date of birth & the mobile number registered to your account to support@up.com.au.

Sorry, We Couldn't Verify Your Identity

We were unable to verify your identity based on the information you’ve provided.

To get back into your account, you'll need to submit a Manual Account Recovery.

Tap 'Begin Account Recovery' in your app and follow the prompts to provide ID. Once you've submitted your ID, our Recovery Experts will review your submission within 30 minutes.

Find Your Recovery Code

What’s an Account Recovery Code and where to find it

Read how

Not What You’re Looking For?
How to Recover Your Account

If you need a different kind of help, we’re here 👋
Send us a message via ‘Talk to Us’ in your Up app, or email support@up.com.au if you don’t have access.

=== how-to_save-for-a-cause_.txt ===

How to Save for a Cause

Learn how to configure round ups and pay splitting to help you effortlessly save for any cause you want to support.

Step One.
Navigate to the Savers tab.
If you don't have any Savers setup, create your first by tapping Create a Round-ups Saver.
If you already have Savers, tap the + button in the lower right.
Step Two.
Follow the prompts to give your saver a name and icon. You can skip having a target amount.
Step Three.
Tap your newly created Saver.
Tap Round Ups in the center of the screen.
Enable Round Ups and optionally enable even dollar purchases and boosting.
Step Four.
Locate a recent salary payment to you in the payments tab.
Tap the arrow in the contact name header, then edit payment splits.
Toggle them on and choose a percentage amount to be automatically transferred into your new saver.
Step Five.
Once you have money saved up, transfer it out of your saver to your spending account.
Donate to the cause of your choice, using either your debit card or a direct deposit payment.
You can copy your card details to the clipboard by going to the Up tab, Card, then Show Card Details and tapping any detail to copy.

=== how-to_update-mobile-number_.txt ===

How to update your mobile number

Changed mobile number or lost your phone? Don’t worry, you can update your mobile number using the Up app.

Have access to your account?

If you’ve just got a new mobile number and you’re still logged in, you can follow these steps to update your mobile number. Alternatively if you no longer have access to your account you’ll need to verify yourself to regain access to your account with a new number.

Step One.
Navigate to the Up tab.
Then access your Up profile by tapping on the Profile section.
Tap on your existing mobile number to start the update flow.
Step Two.
Enter your new mobile number.
When prompted, enter the verification code we send by SMS to your new number.
Step Three.
Once complete you’ll be able to register your new mobile number as a PayID.
From now on you’ll use your new mobile number to access your Up account.
Regain Access

In the event you no longer have access to your Up account and you’ve changed your mobile number, you’ll need to manually verify to regain access to your account. You’ll need to have a form of photo identification handy.

Step One.
Firstly, download the Up app or update it to make sure you have the latest version.
Fire it up and press Agree & Continue.
Step Two.
If you do not have access to your old number, tap Existing Upsider with a new number?.
Enter your old mobile number that is associated with your Up account.
Step Three.
Enter your new mobile number.
Enter the verification code that we SMS to your new number.
Once complete you’ll be prompted to complete a Manual Identity Verification.

=== huam_.txt ===

Be a Great Mate

Getting your mates on Up makes it easier than ever to send and request money from them! Make IOUs a thing of the past with Pay Requests, forget about BSBs and account numbers with $Upnames and split bills faster with Slices.

Even better (or best?) when your mates join, they'll get all the benefits of being an Upsider. You're giving them tools they can use to help them master their money, smash their savings goals and simplify their lives.

To top it off, when you invite a mate, you'll get $10 when they become an Upsider. Each year you remain an Upsider your referral bonus will grow in value by an additional $1 (up to a max of $15).

See the full T&Cs below.

Unlock SMS Invites
Download the latest version of the app.
Verify your email address. You can resend your verification email from the Hook Up a Mate screen.
Make a purchase using a digital wallet or your Up card.
That's it. You should be able to invite friends now by hitting the big orange bar.
Activate Your Personalised Sharing Page

As well as inviting your mates by SMS, you can turn on your personalised Shareable Hook Up a Mate page and get custom link you can share on Social and Group Chats. It'll look a bit like this:

https://hook.up.me/your_up_name

Once you've set up your Upname and qualified for Hook Up a Mate head to the Hook Up a Mate screen in-app and tap your profile icon in the bottom right of the screen to enable it.

Heads up that by enabling your Shareable Hook Up a Mate page, your Upname and profile photo will be shared. If you’d rather keep that information private, you’re better off sticking with sending your mates an SMS via the direct ‘Invite friends’ flow in‑app.

If you do opt-in and later change your mind you can opt back out at any time (tap the three dots on the Hook Up a Mate screen in the app) and your shareable page will be deactivated.

Conditions Of Use

Hook Up a Mate is designed so that Upsiders can spread the word about Up (ABN 11 068 049 178) in the spirit of genuine advocacy and referral.

Invites expire automatically if the invitee has not become an Up customer (having passed ‘KYC’ and ID verification requirements) after 14 days. To receive the sign-on bonus, the invite code needs to be provided through the Up app.

We may at our absolute discretion cancel a “Hook Up a Mate” payment without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances in which we may do so, we may cancel this feature under the following circumstances:

We believe you are acting in a fraudulent, deceptive or misleading way.
Your conduct is in breach of the terms and conditions.
We close your account.
We believe the security or quality of the Up app or related services is threatened.
You have unpaid fees or charges, or direct deposit dishonours on your account.
You are sending an excessive number of unsolicited invites.
Conditions for inviters

To enable the sending of invites you must be an active Up customer with a verified email address and have made one or more purchases with Up. You will receive a notification once you qualify.

To enable your shareable Hook Up a Mate page, you’ll need to also have set up your Upname and have opted to share your profile picture, Upname and the length of time you’ve been an Upsider.

A once off bonus payment will be paid to you when the person you invite joins Up and becomes a customer from 12:00pm AEDT 3 April 2024. In your first year as an Upsider the standard value of this bonus payment is $10. After 1 year as an Upsider the value is $11, after 2 years it becomes $12, and so on each year with incremental increases of $1 up to a cap of $15. We’ll let you know when you hit these milestones in‑app.

Conditions for invitees

A once off bonus payment will also be paid to invitees when they join Up and become a customer (by passing KYC) from 12:00pm AEDT 3 April 2024. In the inviter’s first year as an Upsider the standard value of this bonus payment for each invitee is $10. After 1 year as an Upsider that becomes $11 for the invitee, after 2 years it becomes $12, and so on each year that passes up to a maximum cap of $15. We’ll let you know when you hit these milestones in‑app.

Conditions for invite codes

If you have signed up using an invite code or sharing link (which may resolve to an invite code), you will be told what that code or link entitles you to before completion of sign up. Please note that due to caching on some social media sites, artwork shown may show a higher value than the amount eligible.

Bonus payments associated with invite codes or links will only be paid on successful sign-up and creation of your new Up account and satisfaction of any qualifying criteria.

Invite codes may be cancelled at any time after they are issued. This offer only applies to individuals opening a new Up Everyday Account.

More Questions?
I don’t have any more invites. How can I get more?

When you unlock Hook Up a Mate you’re awarded a number of invites. To get more, you’ll need the people you invite to accept those invites. Invites do expire after a period of time though, but the best way to get more invites is to make sure you’ve explained why you love Up to your friends before you send invites to them.

When do I get my reward?

You will receive a payment once your friend has fully completed their sign up.

I was invited but I didn’t get a bonus?

Most of the time this means that you didn’t sign up using the phone number your friend invited. Unfortunately, we can only provide the bonus to customers who have been invited via this system, have signed up using the phone number invited. You will however, be able to send invites yourself once you qualify and you will be eligible for any bonuses linked to invites you send.

I haven’t received a bonus from a friend who signed up

In the Hook Up a Mate screen you will see which mates have signed up. You will only be eligible for the bonus once your friends have fully completed their sign up. Your friends will need to ensure they are signing up with the same phone number that you referred. If they sign up with a different phone number, neither of you will be eligible for the bonus.

Why do some Upsiders have a higher referral bonus than me?

Your referral bonus amount is tied to your Upsider age (i.e. tenure as a customer). If you’ve been an Up customer for less than 1 year it’ll be at the base value of $10. After that, it increases each year in value (for both the inviter and invitee) by an additional $1 up to a maximum cap of $15.

Why has my referral bonus suddenly gone up?

From time to time this may temporarily increase as part of a particular promotion. Keep your eyes on our newsletter and socials for when these promotions may start and finish, or you can check in-app on the Hook Up a Mate screen.

Last updated 3 April 2024

=== media_.txt ===

Press + Media
media@up.com.au

On this page, you'll find existing features, press releases, assets, and a small taste of all the expertise our team can lend you. If you're after something more specific, just get in touch with our team in-app via Talk to Us or via email at support@up.com.au

Latest Press Releases

Nov 12, 2024

Up skyrockets to 1 million customers for 6th birthday

read!

Jun 05, 2024

Up partners with RISING Melbourne with world-first data-led...

read!

Apr 15, 2024

Up Wins Neobank of the Year in the Roy Morgan Annual Customer...

read!

Feb 16, 2024

Up Wins in Mozo Awards with Best Fixed and Offset Home Loans

read!

Nov 27, 2023

Big Upside To New Anti-Fraud Technology Pilot

read!

Oct 23, 2023

Love At First Sight Does Exist, As MAFS' Ella May Ding Pops The...

read!

Aug 01, 2022

Up launches savings based solution to Buy Now Pay Later

read!

Jul 20, 2022

Up Home: Everything you love about Up, in a home loan

read!

Aug 16, 2021

The ABCs of Up — All the facts you need

read!

Aug 16, 2021

Up joins the Bendigo family, accelerates growth and capability

read!

Aug 16, 2021

Xavier Shay appointed as CEO of Up

read!

May 31, 2021

The Solution: 2 Player Banking

read!

May 31, 2021

Up: Most Trusted

read!

May 18, 2021

2Up: Up reimagines joint accounts

read!

Apr 21, 2021

AFR Best Place to Work

read!

Mar 19, 2021

Up makes money easy on TikTok with Australia first Gamified Effect

read!

Mar 19, 2021

Up protects customers from harassment with dedicated approach

read!

Show All (17)
Mentioned In The Media

Nov 12, 2024

Up reaches new milestone in bid to challenge traditional banking...

read!

Oct 09, 2024

You’ll thank this bank for making you wait hours for your savings

read!

May 19, 2024

Up neobank’s lessons in tech success

read!

Nov 27, 2023

Bendigo Bank to trial CBA scam tech

read!

Nov 23, 2023

Friday arvo beers, anyone? Get up to $50 cashback every week thanks...

read!

Oct 31, 2023

Up your home loan game with this little-known lender

read!

Oct 04, 2023

Saving for a deposit? Here’s why it’s crucial for homebuyers to be...

read!

Sep 25, 2023

Best way to save money: Join the ‘euphoric’ shoppers saving $1000...

read!

Aug 21, 2022

Digital mortgages race picks Up with Tic:Toc (Paywall)

read!

Aug 04, 2022

Lay-by is making a comeback with young bank customers sick of...

read!

Aug 01, 2022

This banking app is swapping purchases you regret for cash

read!

Aug 01, 2022

Up bank launches Maybuy, the automated payments plan for young...

read!

Aug 01, 2022

Neobank launches ‘save now, buy later’ BNPL rival (Pay wall)

read!

Jun 13, 2022

“It’s a feeling”: Up is reaching gen Z and millennial customers...

read!

May 31, 2021

Millennials see joint bank accounts as outdated, survey finds

read!

Apr 21, 2021

How to make your startup a great place to work

read!

Apr 20, 2021

‘Covid lit a fire under us’: four businesses bringing new energy...

read!

Apr 19, 2021

Support is not a touch point, it’s an experience. Design for it.

read!

Apr 14, 2021

It’s time to get on TikTok: How a local lolly brand and a banking...

read!

Apr 07, 2021

How Up used Slack to build Australia’s first digital bank and earn...

read!

Jan 21, 2019

Grown-ups': Neobanking sector chases customer sign-ups

read!

Jan 19, 2019

The Ubers of the banking industry

read!

Jan 17, 2019

Is Up Bank the future for time-poor millennials?

read!

Jan 11, 2019

Australia’s top finance apps reveal a changing market

read!

Jan 09, 2019

Up vs ING

read!

Dec 28, 2018

Up makes it easier to transfer money

read!

Dec 27, 2018

Challenger lenders weigh in on APRA’s halfway house

read!

Dec 17, 2018

Digital bank Up: Hands-on review of new conversational payments

read!

Dec 17, 2018

Up launches conversational payments

read!

Dec 14, 2018

The Best Bank Accounts For Cardless 'Tap-And-Pay'

read!

Dec 04, 2018

“Big shoes to fill”: Victorian startup industry reacts to new...

read!

Nov 29, 2018

'We’re tech companies': The neobanks’ advantage

read!

Nov 04, 2018

Big shoes to fill: Victorian startup industry reacts to new...

read!

Nov 01, 2018

Local neobanks tell Revolut “bank hating” won’t work here

read!

Nov 01, 2018

Neobanks are about to explode onto the Australian market

read!

Oct 31, 2018

Digital bank Up launches with Google Pay, fee-free banking and...

read!

Oct 31, 2018

Digital neobanks: “We don’t want to go mainstream”

read!

Oct 30, 2018

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank boss Marnie Baker wants to challenge the...

read!

Oct 24, 2018

Digital banking - Compare digital banks in Australia

read!

Oct 23, 2018

The Future of Banking in Australia 2018 (video)

read!

Oct 22, 2018

Up Digital Bank

read!

Oct 18, 2018

Are Digital Banks the Future?

read!

Oct 15, 2018

New digital ‘banking alternative’ launches

read!

Oct 15, 2018

Next-gen bank launched in Australia

read!

Oct 12, 2018

Up Bank Launch

read!

Oct 12, 2018

New digital bank Up launches for Australian market

read!

Oct 11, 2018

Digital bank Up delivers new banking alternative

read!

Oct 11, 2018

How Australia’s Newest Digital Bank Plans To Compete With The Big Four

read!

Oct 10, 2018

Weekly round up — Australia

read!

Oct 10, 2018

“Up” ushers in a new digital age for Australian banks

read!

Oct 10, 2018

Up is live in Australian market

read!

Oct 10, 2018

New digital bank Up announces partnership with Afterpay

read!

Oct 10, 2018

New ‘Digital Banks’ Emerge To Challenge Australia’s Big Four

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Volt bank partners with PayPal as Up launches with Bendigo and...

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Up and away: Tech guru and former AFL coach launch Australia’s...

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Digital bank Up turns, well, up

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Digital bank “Up” arrives for most phones, wearables

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Former St Kilda coach Grant Thomas launches new bank (Pay wall)

read!

Oct 09, 2018

New digital bank “Up” launches in Australia

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Australia's latest digital bank startup UP has launched with a...

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Fintech Futures - New Aussie neobank Up is alive and kicking

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Australia’s first next-gen digital bank is live

read!

Oct 09, 2018

Afternoons with Richelle Hunt, interview with Chris Riddell of...

read!

Oct 08, 2018

Bendigo and Adelaide bullish on the launch of digital bank Up (Pay...

read!

Show All (64)
Up Assets

Official photos, logos and assets available for download.
Please consider contrast of our logo during application and the clear space surrounding it.

Logos

download!

download!

If you're after something you can't see here, like a CMYK logo or alternative animation please contact us.

Product Imagery

download!

download!

download!

download!

download!

download!

People of Up

Lots of people work on Up! Some of us are keen to chat with you if you’re after a guest post, a presenter, or a comment. Get in touch via media@up.com.au and we’ll hook you up with a star.

download!

Neil Ang (he/him)

I’m a senior software engineer at Up. A lot of my time is spent building new features for our awesome customers, but I also love the challenge of finding new ways to make our app and internal development tools more intuitive, performant and fun. I love to code and tell the occasional bad joke.

WebsiteTwitterLinkedIn

download!

Chris Aitchison (he/him)

As the CTO at Up, my main focus is ensuring that our amazing team has all the support they need to consistently delight our customers. I’m still lucky enough to be able to write some code and wrangle some data here and there, too. I can talk all day about culture and trust, leadership, data analytics, cycling, poker and raising daughters.

TwitterLinkedIn

download!

Justin Higgs (he/him)

All the gear and no idea. I’m a self confessed 'digital janitor' who loves being behind a screen. I’m passionate about branding, motion design and illustration. If there’s something that needs drawing and 2D animation, I’ll be there. I spend most of my time chasing the rush that came with taking out the Under 9’s Dingley Dingoes Lightning Premiership in 1998.

download!

Tyson Thomas (he/him)

I lead the Support team at Up - cause I get a greater sense of fulfilment and satisfaction helping others than helping myself. I utterly enjoy motivating, managing and developing people towards breakthrough performances. Enter Up Support, shaping a humble team that strongly believes we have the ingredients to change the game Industry wide. A Support experience as kick-ass as our Product.

download!

Anson Parker (he/him)

I’m the Head of Product at Up, responsible for leading Up’s product strategy and roadmap. I never thought I’d work in finance but hey, here I am! I must admit I love having the opportunity to put technology to work improving people’s financial well-being and making a positive impact on their lives. Originally from NZ, I worked in Sydney and San Francisco before settling in Melbourne.

TwitterAFR Opinion: Open BankingPodcast: Neobanks in AUS

download!

Seb Neylan (he/him)

I’m a marketer originally from adland who transitioned client-side and cut their teeth online with Lonely Planet in London. Returning to Australia I got a taste for fintech at MYOB before joining the Up growth team. I’ve written for publications like Broadsheet, presented at conferences like Slack Frontiers, and lectured at RMIT. Digital channels are my jam.

TwitterCase Study: Up x Apple Search AdsCase Study: RedditMarketing Insider

download!

Anthony Langhorne (he/him)

As an Engineering Leader at Up, my focus is on delivering for our customers through well written, easily maintained software - built to the highest standards in the industry. I’ve been making software for a long time and have loved every moment. So if you’d like to talk about any aspect of the software delivery process, say hello!

download!

Nektarea Cameron-Smith (she/her)

Some call me “the People’s Champion.” Mainly myself, but it fits the vibe. I’m the Head of Customer experience at Up, leading a triple threat team that’s all about curating, measuring and iterating on authentically excellent experiences. When I’m not forcing people to have lunch with me, you’ll find me repping our customers with a toolkit stacked with empathy and analytics.

download!

Sylvain Lafitte (he/him)

I’m a product designer and Head of Design at Up. I focus on understanding people to make sure we find and solve the right problems for them, and deliver simple products that are helpful, delightful, and easy to use. Originally from France, I’ve now worked and led Design teams in New Zealand and Australian tech companies such as Culture Amp and Xero.

TwitterLinkedIn

download!

Vera Kung (she/her)

I am a designer and product manager – I enjoy picking apart complex systems and processes and putting them back together in a way that makes them seem simple. I’m always open to talking about convoluted design career paths, sourdough baking (check out Knead for Need), or competitive ballroom dancing.

Knead for NeedInstagram

download!

Justin French (he/him)

I’m an experienced tech leader, building online platforms, communities and teams for over 20 years with companies like Envato, Clear Grain and Redbubble. As the COO of Up, I’m all about applying a customer first approach to our business operations, and empowering teams to help customers succeed.

TwitterLinkedInWebsite

download!

Lauren Mutzelberg (she/her)

As Head of People and Culture, every day I’m making sure people at Up have what they need, feel heard, feel comfy, and have input into how we grow. I’m into problem solving, mentoring and making new connections, so don’t hesitate to say hi! Currently trying to find a way to spend every weekend camping while also raising an 18mo old and avoiding daycare germs: if you have any tips, you’re my new best friend.

LinkedIn

download!

Xavier Shay (he/him)

I’m a veteran leader and software engineer (ex- The Conversation, Redbubble, and Square). In 2019 I returned from scaling Square in the US, to be part of building Up. I’m an experienced speaker and writer, open to opportunities around disruption, culture and leadership. I’m a passionate runner and vegan.

TwitterWebsiteConfreaksRecent commentary

download!

Rukmal De Silva (he/him)

I’m a marketer with an entrepreneurial bent. There’s nothing I enjoy more than testing, tinkering and scaling approaches to growth. Check the links for a bit of colour on my happenings at Up. Before the COVID I visited over half the world’s countries and harbour a dream to make it to all of the world’s regional Burns.

MIFFMelbourne FringeShe’s On The MoneyWebsite (one of my previous entrepreneurial activities)

download!

Brian Oakley (he/him)

As Up’s resident data and statistics nerd, I handle all things Analytics in our product team. In a previous life I decoded brain signals to better understand our visual processing system, and now I love to surface new ways Up can help people build healthy financial habits. I’m obsessed with spatial computing, virtual reality, and the intersection between neuroscience and technology.

TwitterLinkedInPersonal websiteAn article I wrote

=== miff-2020_.txt ===

MIFF 2020

Up Froths MIFF 2020

Up is stoked to announce that we’re a Major Partner of this year’s Melbourne International Film Festival. In a critical time for keeping the arts alive and for making inside-time = awesome-time, we’re offering our support to the festival, to artists, and to you.

Up Yeah MIFF

MIFF is Australia’s biggest film festival, an Aussie icon and a critical supporter of emerging artists. MIFF values creativity, exploration and challenging what’s gone before, and so do we. We are proud to support its unique mission - building an enlightened, engaged society through film. You’ll feel Up’s vibe across MIFF’s programming this year with our very own movie trailer featuring across 68½% of the curated program.

As an entirely digital festival this year, MIFF 68½ will bring the story of the world and the magic of cinema to homes all across Australia. We hope that its curated program of new-release films helps you discover something new about yourself or the world around you.

All Upsiders get MIFF Discounts

All Upsiders can get a cool 15% discount on MIFF tickets this year. We'll be in touch shortly with your exclusive Upsider code. Join us and see the world through the magic of film, not the magic of going outside.

We’ll also be sharing free talks with filmmakers and more throughout the festival: hold tight, there’s more to come.

We're also proud to be MIFF’s ‘Presenting Partner’ (ooo, fancy) for ‘Ellie & Abbie (& Ellie’s Dead Aunt)’ an incredibly sweet comedy-drama about family, acceptance, generational difference and the rollercoaster of adolescence, with nuggets of Australian LGBTQIA+ history thrown into the mix.

Need to have a bit of a laugh, a bit of a cry, and maybe fall in love a little bit? Yeah. We know. Us too.

Check out the MIFF 2020 Program
New around here? Upgrade to Awesome

If you’re not an Upsider already, use the code MIFF when you join Up (invite code conditions apply), and we’ll punt you $10. Buy a movie ticket whydontcha.

Learn more about why you should give Up a crack

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 

Here’s to happy endings, great nights in cinema, and artists who aren’t afraid to be real.From Up with love.

Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== multiplayer_.txt ===

Better with mates

Whether you're traveling the globe or splitting a tab back home, everyday shared money moments become simpler, smarter, and more fun on Up. With features like 2Up, Slices, and Payment Requests, managing money with your partner, best mate, or even a first date is a breeze.

TEAM UP WITH

2Up

The ultimate way to fight finances in co-op mode. Join forces with your Player 2 to battle bills, save for shared goals, share expenses and track spending. Take on a new adventure together with 2Up.

KEEP TABS WITH

Slices

Split any purchase or payment with your mates on Up. Simply choose a purchase, tap ‘Slice this purchase,’ and divide it by dollar amount, percentage, or equal shares. We keep track, send reminders, and let you check who’s paid—all without the mental gymnastics.

GIVE IT A HUMAN TOUCH

Payments With Personality

Up simplifies paying mates, sharing costs, and managing bills. Use your $Upname to receive payments instantly, request money with automatic reminders, and split expenses with Slices. Add some character to payment threads with GIFs and emojis, and handle payments easily via PayID, BPAY, and Wise for international transfers.

Download
Up Today
Try it now→

=== overseasy-giveaway-terms_.txt ===

Overseasy Instagram Giveaway - Up x The Daily Aus x July

Errata: An error in the number of prizes in section 19 was fixed on 30/06/2023

Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Start date: 21/06/23 at 09:00 am AEST
End date: 28/06/23 at 11:59 pm AEST

Eligible entrants

Entry is only open to Australian residents who are 16 years and over. Entrants under the age of 18 must have parent or legal guardian approval to enter.

How to enter

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

a) choose a photo they have taken from their favourite holiday destination (‘Photo’);
b) upload the Photo to their Instagram story with the travel themed postcard digital sticker(s) from the 'Up GIPHY profile (https://giphy.com/up_banking); and
c) tag the following Instagram accounts in the post: @thedailyaus, @up_banking, and @july

Entrants must ensure their Instagram account privacy setting is set to public (i.e. not 'private') to be eligible for this Promotion.

Entries permitted

Entrants may enter multiple times provided each entry is submitted separately in accordance with the entry instructions above. Each entry submitted by an entrant must contain a different photo. The entrant is eligible to win a maximum of one (1) prize. By completing the entry method, the entrant will receive one (1) entry.

Total prize pool

AUD $1,800.00

Prize Description

The prize consists of the following:

black July Carry On suitcase with Up brand personalization on the case;
personalized July leather luggage tag (with the winner's chosen initials);
Up brand t-shirt (awarded in the winner's chosen size, subject to availability);
Up hat (1 size only);
Up tote bag.
Number of prizes

3

Value (per prize)

AUD$600.00

Winning Method

Judging

Conditions

The prize will be delivered via mail by July.

Winning notification

The winners will be contacted via direct message on Instagram from the official Up profile within seven (7) business days of the judging.

Unclaimed Prizes

In the event of an unclaimed prize, the Promoter may at its discretion assign the prize to the entry judged the next best entry, conduct a further judging to award the prize, or withdraw the prize unawarded. The Promoter is under no obligation to award any unclaimed prize.

1. The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
2. The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
3. Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
4. Employees (and their immediate family members) of agencies/companies directly associated with the conduct of this Promotion, the Promoter, businesses involved in determination of winner/s for the Promotion, businesses involved in the management of the Promotion, any organisation benefiting from the Promotion, the Promoter’s distributors, suppliers, subsidiary companies/businesses and associated companies and agencies are not eligible to enter. "Immediate family member" means any of the following: spouse, ex-spouse, de-facto spouse, child or step-child (whether natural or by adoption), parent, step-parent, grandparent, step-grandparent, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister or 1st cousin.
5. If a prize is won by a person under the age of 18, the prize may be awarded to the winner's parent or guardian and where applicable to the prize a nominated parent/guardian must accompany any person under 18 years of age.
6. Judging:
a) The winners will be determined by representatives of the Promoter. Each entry will be judged on the basis of the individual creative merit of the edited image submitted on entry.
i) The best three (3) valid entries, as determined by the judges, will each win the prize specified in the Schedule above.
ii) The judges may select additional reserve entries which they determine to be the next best, and record them in order, in case of an invalid entry or ineligible entrant.
iii) The winners will be determined by skill. Chance plays no part in determining the winners. The judges' decision is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into.
7. All reasonable attempts will be made to contact each winner.
8. If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize by the time specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
9. Entry and continued participation in the Promotion is dependent on the entrant following and acting in accordance with the Instagram Terms of Use, (http://instagram.com/legal/terms/). This Promotion adheres to the terms and conditions set out in the Instagram promotion guidelines which can be found at: http://help.instagram.com/179379842258600. Any questions or comments regarding the Promotion must be directed to the Promoter, not to Instagram. The entrant releases Instagram and its associated companies from all liabilities arising in respect of the Promotion. Entrants acknowledge that the Promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with Instagram.
10. The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
11. No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
12. If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and specification.
13. No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion. Where entry is allowed online, there is no additional cost to enter the Promotion other than any cost paid by the entrant to access the website or social media platform of entry via their Internet service provider.
14. If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
15. Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter is bound by the Australian Privacy Principles in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and its privacy policy which is located at https://up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter's privacy policy contains information about how the entrant may access, update and seek correction of the personal information the Promoter holds about them and how the entrant may complain about any potential breach by the Promoter of the Australian Privacy Principles or any other Australian privacy laws and how such complaints will be dealt with. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion. Personal information collected from entrants will not be disclosed to any entity located outside of Australia.
16. The Promoter reserves the right to refuse to allow a winner to take part in any or all aspects of a prize, if the Promoter determines in their absolute discretion, that a winner is not in the physical or mental condition necessary to be able to safely participate in or accept the prize. It is a condition of accepting the prize that a winner (or their parent or legal guardian if under the age of 18) may be required to sign a legal release as determined by the Promoter in its absolute discretion, prior to receiving a prize. If a winner is under the age of 18, a nominated parent or legal guardian of the winner will be required to sign the legal release on the winner's behalf.
17. If a prize is provided to the Promoter by a third party, the prize is subject to the terms and conditions of the third party prize supplier and the provision of the prize is the sole responsibility of the third party and not the Promoter. The terms and conditions which apply to the prize at the time it is issued to the winner will prevail over these Conditions of Entry, to the extent of any inconsistency. The Promoter accepts no responsibility or liability for any delay or failure by the third party to deliver the prize, any delay or failure relating to the prize itself or failure by the third party to meet any of its obligations in these Conditions of Entry or otherwise.
18. Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
19. If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize.
20. The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
21. All material submitted on entry (e.g. photo(s), image(s), drawing(s), comment(s), sound/video recording(s) and answer(s) to a promotional question) must NOT: (a) be in breach of any laws, regulations and rights, e.g. any laws regarding intellectual property (copyright, trademarks, etc), defamation and privacy; (b) be defamatory, obscene, derogatory, pornographic, sexually inappropriate, contain nudity, aggressive, violent, abusive, harassing, threatening, objectionable or discriminate/vilify any section of the community with respect to race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, origin, sexual preference, mental illness, disability or gender or unsuitable for publication; or (c) contain viruses. Entrants warrant that they own or have the right to license the copyright in any entry submitted by them into this Promotion, for the purposes of this Promotion, that no rights have been granted to any third party in respect of any such entry which would prevent the entry being used as contemplated by this Promotion, and that the use by the Promoter of any such entry will not breach any laws or infringe the rights of any person (including without limitation with respect to privacy, intellectual property and defamation). Entrants must obtain prior consent from any person or from the owner(s) of any property that appears in their entry. By entering, all entrants license and grant the Promoter, its affiliates and sub-licensees an exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, and sub-licensable right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish and display their entry (including any portion of their entry) for any purpose, including but not limited to future promotional, marketing or publicity purposes, in any media, without compensation, restriction on use, attribution or liability. Entrants further agree, upon request by the Promoter, to assign all of their rights, title and interest (including copyright) in and to their entry to the Promoter and to sign any legal documentation to confirm such assignment. Entrants agree that their entry is their original work and does not infringe the rights of third parties, or that they have obtained full prior consent from any person who has jointly created or has any rights in the aforementioned material. Entrants consent to any use of their entry that may otherwise infringe their moral rights. Entrants are responsible for all entries they submit on entry. The Promoter will not be liable for any entries, to the extent permitted by law. The Promoter reserves the right to remove, request removal or decline to publish any entry or portion of an entry for any reason whatsoever, including if in breach of these Terms and Conditions. The Promoter will have no liability to entrants if it exercises this right and entrants must comply with any request made by the Promoter pursuant to this paragraph. The entrant warrants and represents that any material sent or provided by the entrant to the Promoter will not infringe any copyright, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of any third party (including moral rights) and that the entrant has all rights to use the materials and has obtained all necessary consents to comply with any relevant privacy and/or confidentiality requirements. Entrants agree to indemnify the Promoter for any breach of the Terms and Conditions including this clause.
22. The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion or claiming a prize, the Promoter will resolve the dispute in direct consultation with the entrant. If the dispute cannot be resolved the Promoter’s decision will be final.
23. The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or wilful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation), except for any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in which case that liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
24. The entrant will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
25. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
26. Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 30 June 2023

=== perk_up_.txt ===

Perk-up with a coffee onthe house

Random acts of free coffee.
Weekdays on Up 7-11 a.m.

5
59
44
Buy your morning coffee with Up and it might be yours on the house.
Is #perkup running?

Perk-up runs weekdays, 7-11 a.m. local time wherever you are in Australia.*

Check this page to see when you could score a free pour. On weekdays when the competition is running we'll post the daily prize pool along with a real time feed of winners.

*Exception: AWST will apply in ACWST areas.

How do I play?

While Perk-up is running use your Up card (physical or digital) on a spend of up to $6.50, and there’s a chance that you’ll get it for free. Perth or Melbourne, it’s all good - we’ll roll with your time zone.

Am I a winner?

Instead of your standard transaction notification, winners will automatically receive a welcome surprise - the good news that this particular coffee has been taken care of. That’ll be an extra hot skinny flat white with a dollop of delight.

If you’re lucky enough to win yourself a cof-free (get it?) you’ll get a notification letting you know that this coffee was on us.

What’s the catch?

Make a purchase of $6.50 or less from any merchant that falls under the Up purchase category ‘Restaurants & Cafes’ while the Perk-up promotion is running to have a chance of getting that purchase paid for by Up.

Entry is only open to Australian residents who are 16 years and over, have an Up Everyday Debit Card Account and have registered access to the ‘Up’ banking App on their compatible device.

Full terms and conditions apply.

Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes

=== perk_up_terms_.txt ===

Terms & Conditions
Up Perk-up Promotion ("Conditions of Entry")
Each Promotion is conducted for one weekday only.
Promoter:

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional Period:

Each Promotion commences at 7am and closes at 11am (based on local time) the same weekday. The Promotions will commence from 7am (local time) on 10/03/22 and will continue on each weekday only, until otherwise specified by the Promoter. All advertising for the Promotions will be removed as soon as the Promotions cease.

Eligible entrants:

Entry is only open to Australian residents who are 16 years and over, have an Up Everyday Debit Card Account and have registered access to the ‘Up’ banking app on their compatible device.

Entrants under the age of 18 must have parent or legal guardian approval to enter.

How to Enter:

Within the Promotional Period, prizes will be awarded during Perk-up Periods as they are shown on https://up.com.au/perk_up. Exact value of prize Credit available to be won in total during each Perk-up Period will be listed on the aforementioned website.

Perk-up Periods will vary per state, both in terms of prize amount and start time.

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete an Eligible Transaction using their Up Everyday Card/Digital Wallet during a Perk-up Period.

The following conditions must be met in order for a purchase to be a qualifying transaction for this Promotion (“Eligible Transaction”):

The purchase must be made at an identified merchant that has been previously been categorised as a "Restaurants & Cafes" within the Up app;
The purchase must be made while a Perk-up Period is active in the merchants’ timezone (active periods will be updated from time to time and listed at https://up.com.au/perk_up).
The purchase must be made at point of sale using a valid Up Mastercard debit card; and
Purchase must be a minimum of $0.99 and maximum of $6.50.

The following are not Eligible Transactions:

Cash out
Any transaction which have been reversed or cancelled
Cash advances
ATM withdrawal
BPay payments
Pay Anyone payments
Any purchase made from a merchant that has not been categorised as a "Restaurants & Cafes"

Customers will be automatically entered into the Promotion after making an eligible purchase identified through the merchant transaction notification.

Entries permitted:

Limit one (1) entry permitted per Eligible Transaction. Limit one (1) prize per person each day.

All valid Perk-up entries have a chance of winning providing there is still available prize money (this can be viewed during competition hours at https://up.com.au/perk_up ). The probability of an entry winning is determined by a number of factors including the time and money remaining for that day as well as the number and recency of any past wins the entrant may have had.

Instant Win Winning Method:

Entrants will be notified immediately upon completing an eligible purchase if they are a winner. Each winner will receive an in-app notification that their Eligible Transaction has been paid for by the Promoter up to the maximum cap of $6.50 as opposed to an in-app standard transaction notification. For the sake of clarity, the credit for the Eligible Transaction up to max of $6.50 (“Credit”) will automatically be added back to their Up account as the prize.

Prize is delivered immediately following an Eligible Transaction, notification is provided through the App at time of prize delivery and will be visible in the Up app "purchase" screen.

The total amount of Credit awarded for any individual Promotion (i.e. a weekday) will be determined by the Promoter, but will be between a minimum of AUD$500 and a maximum of AUD$3,000. The exact number of prizes awarded will vary based on the value of any winning Eligible Transactions.

Total Prize Pool:

The total prize pool per Promotion (i.e. per weekday) will be a minimum of AUD $500 and a maximum of AUD $3,000.

Further Terms and Conditions:
The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
Quality control errors will not invalidate an otherwise valid prize claim.
Unless otherwise due to fraud or ineligibility under these Terms and Conditions, all prize claims in excess of the advertised prize pool will be honoured.
If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize by the time specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
Where entry is allowed by purchase or subscription, the cost of the product or service is no greater than the cost would be without the opportunity to participate in the Promotion.
The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and/or specification, subject to any written directions of a regulatory authority.
No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion.
If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter is bound by the Australian Privacy Principles in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and its privacy policy which is located at https://www.up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter's privacy policy contains information about how the entrant may access, update and seek correction of the personal information the Promoter holds about them and how the entrant may complain about any potential breach by the Promoter of the Australian Privacy Principles or any other Australian privacy laws and how such complaints will be dealt with. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion and to the State and Territory lottery departments as required under the relevant lottery legislation. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion. Personal information collected from entrants will not be disclosed to any entity located outside of Australia.
Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize, subject to State or Territory regulation.
The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion, the decision of the Promoter is final and binding on each entrant and no correspondence will be entered into.
The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or willful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation), except for any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in which case that liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
The entrant will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
Unless otherwise specified, a prize is a single event for the winner (and where relevant their guests) and cannot be separated into separate events or components.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last modified 3 October 2022.

=== press-releases_2up-reimagining-joint-accounts_.txt ===

2Up: Up reimagines joint accounts

May 18, 2021

Right now in Australia, thousands of couples need to split rent and bills, shop for essentials, and pay for shared Uber Eats orders.

Some manage with a list on the fridge, or work out joint expenses some other way. "They pay the rent, and I sort out the bills and shopping," or, "We split the rent and then I take care of groceries, while they sort the bills”. Creating a joint account to solve this can seem like way too much ‘life admin’ - and too heavy a commitment.

But there’s no good reason a shared account can’t be quick and easy to both set up and shut down. No reason for either partner to be unclear about who spent what, where, and when. And definitely no reason why you should give up financial autonomy, to gain all the benefits of sharing a bank account with the Player 2 in your financial life.

From the morning of Monday 17 May, Up’s customers were able to sign up for early access to digital banking’s most anticipated release - shared accounts with Up. We’re calling these new accounts 2Up, and they’re completely redesigned to better suit modern relationships.

It takes just a few taps to invite your Player 2 to join you in a 2Up account. You each keep your own account, and maintain total control over it. But you also master new connected abilities. Start small with a few shared bills, or go all in and build your financial empire together. If you need help, it’s simple to fire up a shared chat thread with the folks in our support team.

And if it’s splitsville for you two? No problem. Easily shut down your 2Up and you two are back on your own financial paths.

In just 24 hours since the 2Up waitlist opened, more than 2,000 Upsiders have accepted an invitation from their partner-in-finance to join it. Up is already onboarding 50% more new customers in a day than average as people anticipate access - no mean feat, even for Australia’s fastest growing digital bank.

Hundreds of Upsiders have already gained access to 2Up, with many more being brought on each day. The demand has been huge, but we’re controlling numbers right now to make sure our systems and processes are working well. Full launch is expected in the next couple of weeks.

Read more and get started at https://up.com.au/2up/

=== press-releases_afr-best-place-to-work_.txt ===

AFR Best Place to Work

Apr 21, 2021

Up - a Best Place To Work

Ferocia is a close-knit team distilling complex problems into simple, elegant solutions that customers love. Together with Bendigo Bank we build Up, Australia’s leading digital bank as well as the Bendigo Bank internet banking platform (the fifth largest banking retail banking platform in Australia). Ferocia is proud to announce that we have been named on the 2021 AFR BOSS Best Places to Work List.

Up is a digital bank designed to help you organise your money and simplify your life - and we’re fast becoming the bank of choice for under 35’s (and for anyone else who values our innovative, fun approach to spending, saving and budgeting).

Ferocia ranked 8th on the list, from nearly 700 nominated organisations across Australia and New Zealand. The assessment included a comprehensive staff survey where Ferocians were asked to freely rate the policies, practices and programs that Ferocia offers to support our team.

The methodology can be viewed here.

Ferocia was thrilled to be recognised for our achievements and practices. It’s been important to us from the start to offer all staff a genuinely flexible, supportive and challenging workplace, and to truly live our values of putting our lives and families first - both when that’s easy, and when it is not.

QUOTE from Dom Pym, co-founder of Ferocia and Up:

“The best part of being ranked as one of Australia’s Best Places to Work is knowing that Ferocians themselves nominated the company, and voluntarily went through a deep survey process. They wanted to learn where we can improve as a team, and show future Ferocians the heart of who we are.

“We want to support and trust every Ferocian to work at the very highest levels, prioritise their family, and if they need time off - take it.

“Being part of this deep and rigorous awards process gives us a moment to really celebrate how we’ve grown, and pause to decide how we will continue to grow together. That is the magic of Ferocia, and of Up.”

Additional quotes from the Ferocia team:

“I like that Ferocia is a totally open workplace, where learning is more important than being right. I can always talk to people about anything that’s on my mind. If I need help, there’s always someone willing - whether it’s work related or not - and it’s totally OK not to have all the answers.”

María Acuna

“Yeah, we have a pinball machine, and a gym, and a meeting room dedicated to our Nintendo Switch, but that’s not what makes Ferocia great. When COVID took all of these things away, it was the trust that the humans had for each other that held it all together while our way of working was completely upended. That trust is no accident, and it is not cheap. It is the result of the company consistently investing in building human relationships and ensuring that people taking care of themselves, their families, and each other is always the top priority.”

Chris Aitchison

“‘Ferocia is a marathon, not a sprint’ - this sounds like a meaningless corporate buzz phrase, but during the pandemic the company really did represent this value. There was no pressure to up the efficiency if we wanted to get through the other side. Instead the company focused on people's mental health and wellbeing - encouraging them to take breaks! Everyone was dealing with the end of the world in very different ways, and the supportive and flexible culture at Ferocia allowed people to do what they needed to look after themselves.”

Jon Meyers

“Ferocia has given me the space and support to expand professionally. I joined in one role and have had every opportunity from the company and team to grow and try new things. There’s no fear of failing or being ‘stuck’ if new roles aren’t for me. It’s the first time I’ve worked somewhere that really has that sense of trust and community.”

Samii Kilian

“I joined Ferocia as a support officer, juggling part-time work with my uni degree, and they were totally supportive of my need to prioritise study. I loved being part of a world class support team and now I’m taking that experience into one of Australia’s best Ops teams. I never imagined I could do that when I first walked through the doors, but the support from company and team to grow and excel in both roles has been incredible. It’s been an ideal place to develop as a woman in tech and as a new graduate - I’ve learned from legends in their fields and made incredible friends.”

Tenille Verrier

“For me Ferocia is a place where you have a voice. You have a stage to share your thoughts, feelings, and concerns - even if they are really different to others. You are challenged: with these bunch of geniuses around you can’t be average. And you believe, because you can genuinely trust leadership. For those reasons it is the best environment where innovation flourishes.”

Bahriddin Abdiev

“As soon as you join the Ferocia team you’re quick to realise that the trips into work start to feel like you’re returning home and your colleagues and employees start to feel like family. That is the infectious feeling that bounces off the walls within Ferocia, and this continued to thrive throughout the pandemic, thanks to the overwhelming support of each and every Ferocian.”

Bailey Thomas

ABOUT THE AFR BOSS BEST PLACES TO WORK LIST

This prestigious annual list, published by The Australian Financial Review and Boss Magazine, is based on a rigorous assessment process managed by Australia’s leading behavioural science consultancy, Inventium.

The AFR BOSS Best Places to Work list recognises and ranks the best places to work in Australia and New Zealand, by industry, and is the premier list of its kind. The list is judged and compiled by Inventium – Australia’s leading behavioural science consultancy, using unique research-based methodology. In 2020, the list comprised of ten industry lists, compiled from nearly 700 nominations.

www.mostinnovative.com.au

ABOUT INVENTIUM

Inventium is Australia’s leading behavioural science and innovation consultancy. Since 2007, Inventium has helped hundreds of thousands of people become more innovative and more productive at work. Inventium applies the latest findings from science (psychology, behavioural science and neuroscience) to help organisations unlock growth through innovation and to create brilliant workplaces that get the very best out of their people. Inventium is the official methodology partner of the AFR Boss Best Places to Work List and the AFR Boss Most Innovative Companies list. Inventium is also a proud BCorporation.

www.inventium.com.au

ABOUT THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW

For more than 50 years The Australian Financial Review has been the authority on business, finance and investment news in Australia. It has a reputation for independent, award-winning journalism and is essential reading for Australia’s business and investor community.

The Australian Financial Review is owned by Fairfax Media Limited [ASX:FXJ], a leading multi-platform media company.

=== press-releases_big-upside-to-new-anti-fraud-tech-pilot_.txt ===

Big Upside To New Anti-Fraud Technology Pilot

Nov 27, 2023

Up’s pilot of CBA’s anti-fraud technology is expected to further reduce instances of scams and fraud for Up and its 750,000 customers as the sector unites to defeat a common enemy.

Embargoed: 9am (AEDT) Monday, 27 November 2023

Up and Commonwealth Bank have today announced a partnership that will see the digital bank add confirmation of payee functionality to the country’s highest-rated banking app*.

Up, part of Bendigo Bank, will kick off a pilot of Commonwealth Bank’s NameCheck technology which gives customers an indication of whether payee names and account details match, early in 2024.

The new feature will complement existing scam prevention capabilities already protecting Up’s 750,000 customers (or Upsiders) from scams and fraud, including:

‘selfie’ identity verification and multi-factor authentication
a dedicated security team constantly monitoring for suspicious activity
unusual account activity detection.

Up CEO Xavier Shay said the pilot program using currently available technology was an example of the collaborative approach the industry was taking to defeat scammers.

“Scams and fraud affect everyone, so we are really pleased to be able to participate in this pilot. By working together and considering new ways of tackling common problems, we can be more effective as an industry,” Mr Shay said.

According to Commonwealth Bank, since its launch in March 2023, it’s NameCheck technology has prevented more than 10,000 scam payments which would have totalled in excess of an estimated $38 million and has reduced mistaken payments by more than $100 million.

CBA Group Executive Business Banking, Mike Vacy-Lyle, said this partnership builds on the Bank’s commitment to a ‘whole-of-ecosystem’ national approach to scam prevention.

“We are proud to be able to extend our industry-leading technology to others and contribute to protecting more Australians against cyber criminals,” Mr Vacy-Lyle said.

Bendigo Bank’s Chief Transformation Officer, Ryan Brosnahan, said the introduction of the confirmation of payee feature as part of this pilot is a welcome development in the Bank’s response to, and management of, the growing threat of scams and fraud.

“We are proud to work with our peers on solutions that provide our customers with additional confidence when making direct payments online,” said Mr Brosnahan.

“Cyber fraud is a complex, evolving, and ongoing challenge that the industry, government, regulators, law enforcement, telcos and internet platforms must work together to combat.”

Upsiders who think they might have been scammed or who need support can call 1300 002 258.

=== press-releases_love-at-first-sight-does-exist-as-mafs-ella-may-ding-pops-the-question_.txt ===

Love At First Sight Does Exist, As MAFS' Ella May Ding Pops The Question

Oct 23, 2023

Ella May Ding and her new partner, Guy Palermo, have said 'I do' to take their relationship to the next level by agreeing to 'Commit. A Bit' with a new 2Up account.

Up, Australia’s highest rated banking app*, is turning up the volume with their national 'Commit. A Bit' campaign. Tailored for all those modern love birds still in the 'should we open a joint bank account?' guessing game. With 2Up, they're asking, 'Why the fuss? Just commit a bit!

"Together, Guy and I can take on the world with 2Up. Like any couple getting serious, we want to start planning a future together and the Up app makes that easy. We get to keep our individual accounts separate but work together on shared expenses and savings,” said Ella May Ding.

2Up has reimagined couples banking for a generation — you don’t have to go through all the rigmarole of going into a bank anymore. Now, you can get down on one knee, get out your phone, open your heart, and open a 2Up account at the push of a button. Fancy tag teaming that takeaway food or splitting a Netflix account? Just 'commit a bit' with your partner. And even better, when things aren't too serious, your individual spending stays yours, as do your privacy controls.

2Up provides next-level functionality, including digital cards, ensuring you and your better half can use it as one. Simply add your 2Up card to Apple, Google, or other supported digital wallets and start spending together. Each of you is your own card master, with unique card numbers ready in-app for speedy online spending.

Anson Parker, Up Banking's Chief Product Officer said, "There are countless young couples sharing expenses. Whether they're splitting Uber Eats or going 50/50 on rent and groceries, very few of them set up a joint account to do so. We've worked hard to understand why and develop something better suited to modern relationships — 2Up is easy to set up and shut down and is designed to work alongside your personal finances, not replace them."

2Up provides a shared transaction account, personal debit cards that track spending, and multiple shared savers. Getting down on one knee, pulling out your phone and opening a shared account is easy with 2Up—couples banking with no strings attached… and no monthly fees.”

For more information visit https://up.com.au/2up/ and https://up.com.au/blog/starting-out-right-with-2up/

*highest rated banking app as of 30 Sep 2023

For further information, please contact onetwo agency:

Abbey Toffolon abbey@onetwoagency.com
Tessa-Jay Slight tessa-jay@onetwoagency.com

Additional Notes To The Editor:

YouGov survey of 1,000+ Gen Z & Millennials who are in a relationship across Australia on how they manage money together

Up commissioned YouGov to survey 1,000 Gen Z and Millennial who are in a relationship across Australia from 9-16 October 2023. Survey data showed that 41% of Gen Z and Millennial couples were ‘unbanked’ (share expenses but don’t have a joint account) and given existing solutions only 26% were very likely to consider a joint account despite 71% of Gen Z and Millennial couples thinking more about sharing money with their partner over the last 12 months.

Key data points:

Unbanked couples: 93% of Gen Z and Millennials who are in a relationship share expenses with their partner but 47% of them don't use a joint bank account.
Out of touch joint banking solutions: Only 26% of couples are very likely to get a joint bank account highlighting current joint banking solutions are not suited for modern relationships.
Couples want independence: 32% of those unlikely to get a joint bank account cite loss of freedom as a reason for not getting a joint bank account. 2Up enables couples to maintain their personal finances.
Cost of living: 71% of Gen Z and Millennial couples have thought more about sharing money as a couple over the last 12 months

YouGov survey of 1,000+ Gen Z and Millennials who are in a relationship from 9-16 October 2023.

=== press-releases_rising-2024_.txt ===

Up partners with RISING Melbourne with world-first data-led immersive experience

Jun 05, 2024

In its third year, Up has joined forces with RISING Melbourne as it returns to celebrate the art of design at the annual festival from 1 June through to 15 June.

Recognised as the presenting partner of the festival’s Night Trade, Up presents Hi—Fi: The Financially Sound System — a life-size manifestation of its in-app financial wellbeing feature. Producing transcendental visuals, the system itself doubles as a DJ booth, featuring live performances from some of Melbourne’s best DJs including Cut Copy, Soju Gang, Harvey Sutherland, 3NDLES5 and more.

Drawing inspiration from gaming and the future of banking, the space is a visual representation of how Up is transforming ordinary financial tasks, such as money management, into interactive and enjoyable experiences with real aggregated customer data and digital art visualisations.

This comes as fresh insights from Up’s Hi—Fi Pulse Report, Australia’s largest ever money survey of Gen Z and Millenials, reveals over a third (35%) of young Australians struggle to cover a night out, however, they continue to remain optimistic with more than half (54%) feeling like things are getting better.

The Hi—Fi Score combines individuals responses to the survey to reflect on different facets of their financial wellness to give Aussies a number they can track against each quarter. Of the over 85,000 polled, the majority of respondents cited that “overspending on the good life”, including going out and shopping, was preventing them from going further with their money this quarter.

Up’s Head of Design Pete Johnson says, “It’s been great collaborating with premium activation production agency Boom Studios to bring our Hi—Fi system to life. Our world-first installation intersects art and money while choreographing real banking data and sounds from Melbourne's finest DJs.”

“We originally created our Hi—Fi system to make money easy for young Aussies, flipping the script on a tedious task, such as savings and money management, and turning it into a fun activity for them to enjoy. With over 850,000 young Aussies using Up, we wanted to create an experience that we know our customers would love, merging the chaos of money management into a feeling of wellness with the modern sounds of Melbourne.”

To keep the good vibes going throughout the festival, Up will be teeing up hidden gigs within the historic arcade in partnership Triple R and Melbourne Symphony Orchestra.

A merch vending machine situated around Melbourne’s renowned live music venue, Max Watt’s, will offer branded beanies with extra perks for Upsiders. And if you’re unable to attend? There will be a feed of headliner sets on our socials, so no one needs to miss out.

For more information on Hi—Fi, head to up.com.au/hi-fi.

=== press-releases_the-abcs-of-up_.txt ===

The ABCs of Up — All the facts you need

Aug 16, 2021

Through word of mouth, peer-to-peer referrals and enthusiastic stories shared in coffee lines — “it’s like getting a pay rise” — young Australians are leaving the big 4 behind and boarding the rocket ship Up.

From launch in 2018, Up has been a close partnership between Bendigo Bank and software company Ferocia. Together we had big ideas about how banking could be better for all Australians. And together we knew we could make it real.

Ferocia is a close-knit team with international experience building best-in-class tech for banks. Bendigo has banking know-how and a proven way to invest Upsiders’ money ethically.

On August 16, just after Up announced it had grown to 400,000 customers in less than three years, Up co-founders and Ferocia owners Dom Pym and Grant Thomas announced the successful sale of Ferocia to Bendigo Bank, and the appointment of Xavier Shay as Up’s CEO.

Up was already supported by Bendigo Bank’s core infrastructure. Up will continue to operate as the same brand, run by the same people, with the same customer proposition, and Up customers will continue to have the same access to their account as they do today.

Dominic Pym of Ferocia, said “Our partnership with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank started back in 2012 with an objective to re-imagine banking. When we launched Up in 2018, we set out to disrupt the industry by building a completely different experience through a technology-led banking, not bank-led technology approach.”

“The launch of Up ushered in a new digital banking age through a unique fintech and bank partnership. With a vision to be Australia’s number one consumer lifestyle brand, the time is right to scale Up through a deepened relationship and new product offerings from the Bank, whilst bringing Ferocia’s expertise to rest of the Bank’s highly engaged customer base.”

Up might be the biggest challenge to the big 4 you’ve never heard of. Read on and get to know us better.

Meet Up

Never heard of Up? Up is a totally digital, completely reimagined banking experience. It lives on your phone and has attracted a cult following.

Up was launched in October 2018, as the first mobile-only banking app in Australia. We’ve since grown at rocket speed to over 400,000 customers today. We’re already among the top 10 most trusted banking brands in Australia, and along the way we launched unique features like Upnames, conversational payments, and 2Up, developed ground-breaking integrations with Afterpay and Wise (formerly TransferWise), and were the first bank in Australia to support instant digital wallets.

2017
Family and friends
Merchant identification
Upcoming payments
2018
Public launch
Instant Apple Pay
Conversational payments
2019
World first partnership with AfterPay
100,000 Upsiders
Apple Watch integration
2020
250,000 Upsiders
Upnames (personalisable PayID)
Public API, allowing Upsiders to use their own banking data
Exclusive partnership with Wise (formerly TransferWise)
Saver Pools, bringing digital money to life
2021
400,000 Upsiders
Payment Requests
2Up, joint accounts reimagined
Pay Day, a new kind of bank balance

We’re still laser-focused on building the best digital banking experience on earth. We still support Upsiders with live in-app, human chats. The team shares lunches and bike rides, and will not let anyone win at Mario Kart. Ferocia is listed as one of Australia’s Top 10 Technology Best Places to Work (AFR BOSS).

Meet our CEO

Experienced technology leader Xavier Shay has been appointed CEO of Up, to spearhead the next phase of growth.

Xavier has a deep understanding of both financial technology and industry disruption. He spent nearly seven years in the United States building global fintech Square, where he most recently led their Payments Engineering and Analytics team. He was subsequently a leadership consultant for executive teams in the Bay Area, where he also developed and ran an Engineering Leadership course for Bradfield School of Computer Science. Prior to his move to San Francisco, Xavier led the development of a number of large commercial projects in Australia including at The Conversation, Clear Grain, and Redbubble.

Xavier returned home to Melbourne to join Up in April 2019. He has been instrumental in building and scaling Up, as well as leading the award-winning, Australian-first integration with industry disruptors Wise.

Up By The Numbers
Highest rated banking app in Australia: 4.9 App Store, 4.7 Google Play, Aug-2021
Fast growing, with over 400,000 Upsiders: 58% year-on-year growth, over 90% new-to-bank
$3B has been deposited into Up’s unique Savers.
Over $840m is currently held in Up deposits
Active customers averaged 30 purchases per month each during Jun-2021
Over 45% of active customers deposit $1k+ per month over consecutive months
86% customer satisfaction score (CSAT)
60%+ of growth from referrals (40% from Hook-Up-a-Mate alone): Up is better with mates, and built to share.
Internationally, Up’s early growth was faster than Monzo, Revolut, and Starling, all darlings of the UK neobank sector – Up grew to 100k customers quicker than those international neobanks (~8 months) and Australia has less than half the UK population (25m vs 65m).
Tools that Work for a Generation
Up is winning young customers away from the big 4, at speed. Most Upsiders are under 26 years old, and they’ve deposited over $7b into Up in less than 3 years.
Up is winning the war for engagement with smart, fun product design care of Head of Product Anson Parker. Young Australians want more help with managing their personal finances and budgets, and they’ve found that help at Up. Over 25% of active Upsiders log in 100+ times per month and 40% log in >50 times.
85% of customers who joined Up in 2020 built savings - despite the challenges of COVID. With a focus on savings and insight tools, Up offers determined young Australian savers a refreshing alternative.
Upsiders have saved over $50M with Up’s Round-Ups - which Up lets customers boost by up to $10 to turbo-charge their savings.
Set To Accelerate
Up recently launched 2Up, a new take on joint accounts that’s better suited to modern relationships – and Pay Day, a new kind of bank balance. Pay Day matches upcoming bills against pay dates and allows Upsiders to see only the money available to freely spend.
In July 2021, Up added home loans to the Tree of Up, the infamously transparent roadmap. Over 30% of Upsiders are already using Up to save for a deposit.
The Up team famously deploys on average more than six times a day, unheard of in banking, and unusual even amongst global tech companies. With the added firepower of this new investment, the rocket ship Up has been set to turbo.
We’re not done (we never will be).
First mobile-only banking platform in Australia
First banking app with instant digital wallet in Australia, including Apple Pay, Google Pay, and Samsung Pay (Up also supports Garmin Pay, and Fitbit Pay)
First bank in the world to offer instant Apple Pay provisioning with Apple's iOS 14 issuer extensions for Wallet
First and only partner integration in Australia with Wise, offering Australia’s cheapest and fastest international transfers
First bank integration globally with Afterpay, giving you total visibility over your financial commitments
First cloud-hosted retail bank in Australia, and the first in the world with the carbon neutral Google Cloud Platform
First to openly share a banking API with customers. Your data is yours.
Mozo’s Expert Choice: Regular Saver, Exceptional Everyday Account, Excellent Banking App & Banking Innovation 2021
AFR Boss #8 Technology Best Place to Work in Australia 2021 (Ferocia)
Finder’s ‘Digital Disruptor of the Year' 2020
Finnies ‘Best Partnership’ 2019 and 2020
Customer love
Brilliant, my budgeting and spending habits have improved so much that it feels like I got a pay rise
- Noel W
Source
I recommend this bank to literally everyone - especially those who find budgeting hard! If you have trouble with setting goals, budgets, or you just need multiple savings accounts, Up is where it’s at.
- Karlidixon
Source
It is now possible to love your bank. So many cool features
- Matthew A
Source
Am actually saving money for the first time ever
- Josie S
Source

=== press-releases_the-solution-2-player-banking_.txt ===

The Solution: 2 Player Banking

May 31, 2021

Who are joint accounts designed for?
New research suggests it’s not young Australians.

In a new YouGov survey of 1000 Australians, three in four (75%) millennials agreed that traditional joint banking accounts are better suited to married couples, and are not suited for modern relationships where people need more flexible ways to manage shared expenses.*

Seven in ten (69%) Australians agree with this statement, with one in three (32%) strongly agreeing in this regard.

Are young people destined to keep notes on the fridge, juggle transfers, or work it out some other way? Arrangements like "They pay the rent, and I sort out the bills and shopping" or "We split the rent and then I take care of groceries, while they sort the bills” are creating unnecessary life admin for couples.

Up believes there’s a better way. There’s no good reason a shared account can’t be quick and easy to both set up and shut down. Communication and control of shared funds should be equal; and you should still retain total control over your personal finances.

With our core focus on spending and saving, younger Australians have been especially attracted to Up. In fact 9 in 10 Up customers are either Millennials or younger. Our core focus is banking solutions that make sense for young people, and that means reimagining products that other banks see as one-size-fits-all.

The Solution: 2 Player Banking

On 31 May, Up customers were able to access digital banking’s most anticipated release - something completely redesigned to better suit modern relationships. We’re calling this new experience 2Up.

https://up.com.au/2up/

2Up in a nutshell:

A shared transactional account with digital debit cards that lets couples share expenses and savings goals.
Instant set-up and shut-down. Opening and closing 2Up can be done through the app in seconds.
Lets customers maintain their independence and privacy — 2Up accounts work alongside customers’ existing personal accounts instead of replacing them.
It’s more than just a joint account. Couples can receive notifications for shared charges, be included equally in support conversations, save toward shared goals, and easily budget together.

Thousands of customers have joined 2Up with their financial player 2. So far, more than half of those customers are new to joint accounts demonstrating that the product is serving an unmet need!

“This is a financial game changer for couples,” said Anson Parker, Up’s Head of Product. “It’s like going from listening to music on cassette tapes to streaming on Spotify all in one go.”

“It means you can maintain a joint account with your significant other, with each party having complete and immediate transparency over what comes in and what goes out of the account, including the ability to tag and categorise transactions in the app.”

“The icing on the cake is that each party can maintain a separate, individual transaction account - and up to 50 personalised savings accounts - all within the same app.”

Establishment is a simple process where one Upsider invites another. Once accepted that’s it! More than a joint account, 2Up will let couples work together towards common savings goals, view a shared payment history, and even talk to support in a group thread so nobody has to hold a phone on speaker! It’s a totally integrated approach — not simply a shared transactional account. And we couldn’t be more excited to bring the world of collaborative banking into Up.

It takes just three minutes or so to join Up on your phone, and another three to invite your financial Player Two. And if it doesn’t work out between you two? No problem. Shut down your 2Up and be on your way.

*This study (conducted online between 3rd – 5th May 2021) comprised a nationally representative sample of 1,027 Australians aged 18 years and over. Following the completion of interviewing, the data was weighted by age, gender and region to reflect the latest ABS population estimates.

=== press-releases_up-hits-1-million-customers_.txt ===

Up skyrockets to 1 million customers for 6th birthday

Nov 12, 2024

Following its 6th birthday celebrations, Australia’s pioneering digital bank Up has skyrocketed to reach a major milestone of one million customers, with Aussies swapping cheque books for emojis. Launched in 2018, Up set out with a bold vision to redefine banking for the digital age.

In just six years, Up has become the go-to choice for over a million Australians seeking a modern, intuitive, and customer-centric banking experience. Up’s growth has been impressive with a 29% increase in customers year-on-year and a 37% growth in savings year-on-year.

In its first year, Up had 140,000 customers and held $113 million in deposits. Today, the digital bank proudly serves 1 million customers, with over $2 billion in deposits and more than 2,000 settled Up Home loans.

Since its launch, Up has grown a loyal community of customers and fans, with 80% of new Upsiders in the past 12 months joining after recommendations from family or friends. This strong word-of-mouth advocacy highlights the trust Australians have in the bank, further reinforced by Up’s recent recognition for ‘Most Loved Bank Account’ and ‘Most Loved Banking App’ in the Finder Customer Satisfaction Awards. Most recently, Up has become the most followed Australian bank on Instagram, further cementing its place as a leading digital bank with strong customer engagement and community support.

“We are incredibly proud to reach this milestone as we celebrate our sixth birthday,” said CEO of Up and CDO of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, Xavier Shay. “This achievement is a testament to the trust our customers have placed in us and to the hard work and innovation of our team. From day one, our mission has been to make banking simpler, smarter, and more enjoyable for all Australians, and hitting one million customers shows that we’re on the right track.”

Since inception, Up has introduced a range of innovative features designed to help customers take control of their finances. From real-time spending insights and automated savings tools to its popular “Savers” feature, which now accounts for over 1.7 million Saver accounts, Up has continually evolved to meet the changing needs of its customers. Approximately 7% of users have created more than 10 Savers, which they can organise using emojis, and lock or hide to reduce the temptation to spend.

In addition, Up’s “Round Ups” feature has rounded up over 240 million transactions to the nearest dollar (or more), putting the extra cents into more than 300,000 Saver accounts, helping Australians effortlessly grow their savings.

One of Up’s standout features is “2Up”, a joint banking account that has been embraced by over a quarter of active Upsiders. Whether it's with a partner, sibling, or friend, customers are using 2Up to help reach their shared financial goals. Up’s approach to money management extends beyond just saving and spending—it focuses on fostering financial confidence and collaboration towards achieving shared goals.

Up’s commitment to making banking more engaging and fun is reflected in its popular promotions. The “Perk-Up” cashback promo has brightened the mornings of over 90,000 customers, giving away $800,000 worth of free coffees. Additionally, Up helps more than 500 Aussies feel good every week through its “Happy Hour” promo, which awards thousands of dollars in cashback every Friday between 5-7 pm.

Up has also supported over 60,000 Aussies in starting dedicated Home Deposit Savers to help them get onto the property ladder. Up’s in-app customer service, “Talk to Us,” has been instrumental in building trust, having helped over 400,000 Aussies to date.

=== press-releases_up-home-everything-you-love-about-up-in-a-home-loan_.txt ===

Up Home: Everything you love about Up, in a home loan

Jul 20, 2022

Up is excited to announce that early access is now open for its first home loan product, Up Home.

Early access is by expression of interest, and for refinance purposes only – but wider access is on the horizon. More information is available here - https://up.com.au/home-loans/

About Up Home:

Up Home is a simple loan, either fixed or variable, for owner-occupiers. But what sets Up Home apart?

More free offsets, in a fully integrated loan: your existing spending account and up to 50 Saver accounts become offsets
No application, monthly, annual or redraw fees
You can shorten the life of your loan with Round Ups, Boosted Round Ups, Pay Splitting, and all the Up features you love
Start with as little as a 10% deposit.

“Up Home is just different,” said Up CEO Xavier Shay.

“It’s less like the traditional bank loan experience and more like the Up you know and love. Your finances can feel easy again, and you can use all the Up features that already help you save and make money feel simpler.”

Up has grown fast and in only four years of operation, it’s gone from zero to half a million passionate customers. The key to Up’s success is the immense (and un-bank-like) love that “Upsiders” have for Up.

“We don’t feel like a bank because we’re not like the banks people know. We like to engage with people, make them feel great and make life easy. We’re finding that resonates and even changes people’s lives — I’ve lost count of how many Upsiders have told us that Up has helped them save for the first time.”

“With Up Home, Upsiders can go from saving their first $5 to buying a home, all within Up,” Shay continued.

Thousands of Upsiders have already started using Up’s free Home Saver product, taking the first steps towards home saving and learning about how to buy. Given its largely younger customer base, Up plans to be with its customers from start to finish.

“Most of our customers are between 16 and 25 and while actually hitting go on a home loan could be a while off, there’s a lot they can do to save and learn now.

“We’ve created a saver product which will help them save and teach them about the home loan journey, so they can successfully navigate what is likely to be the biggest financial decision they’ll ever make.” he said.

And while buying a home can be daunting, Shay said Up Home won’t be. “It feels like the Up you know and love. That’s what will set Up Home apart.”

About Up

Up exists to make money easy for a new generation of Australians, who need new and better financial tools. We're confident we’ll be banking the next generation of Australians and giving them the better financial options, they deserve.

Highest rated banking app in Australia: 4.9 App Store, 4.6 Google Play (June 2022) 60%+ growth from referrals. Up is better with mates and built to share In just four years, Up’s grown to over half a million customers – most of whom are under 25. Internationally, Up’s early growth was faster than Monzo, Revolut, and Starling, all darlings of the UK neobank sector – Up grew to 100k customers quicker than those international neobanks (~8 months) and Australia has less than half the UK population (25m vs 65m).

What Upsiders say:

“I really love how you guys have changed money for lots of people and I want my home loans to be all in house”
“Refinancing my home loan with Up would be the dream!! Had to move to a different bank because of my current home loan”
“My home loan is expiring and Up is an attractive option given my great experience with them. It's sucked taking my business to another bank this past year and I'd like to come back.”
“Brilliant, my budgeting and spending habits have improved so much that it feels like I got a pay rise.”
“I am absolutely in love with this.”
“It is now possible to love your bank. So many cool features.”
“Love this app! Has made saving SOOOOO easy! Honestly you have nothing to lose, it’s free and so easy to use. I regret nothing and I’ve suggested this bank to everyone I know and heaps of my friends and family are with UP now 😍”

=== press-releases_up-joins-the-bendigo-family_.txt ===

Up joins the Bendigo family, accelerates growth and capability

Aug 16, 2021

Through word of mouth, peer-to-peer referrals and enthusiastic stories shared in coffee lines — “it’s like getting a pay rise” — young Australians are leaving the big 4 behind and boarding the rocket ship Up.

From launch in 2018, Up has been a close partnership between Bendigo Bank and software company Ferocia. Together we had big ideas about how banking could be better for all Australians. And together we knew we could make it real.

On August 16, just after Up announced it had grown to 400,000 customers in only three years, Up co-founders and Ferocia owners Dom Pym and Grant Thomas announced the successful sale of Ferocia to Bendigo Bank, and the appointment of Xavier Shay as Up’s new CEO. Influential Head of Product Anson Parker remains on board to grow the vision for Up so many have fallen in love with.

Up was already supported by Bendigo Bank’s core infrastructure. Up will continue to operate as the same brand, run by the same people, with the same customer proposition, and Up customers will continue to have the same access to their account as they do today.

Dominic Pym of Ferocia, said “Our partnership with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank started back in 2012 with an objective to re-imagine banking. When we launched Up in 2018, we set out to disrupt the industry by building a completely different experience through a technology-led banking, not bank-led technology approach.”

“The launch of Up ushered in a new digital banking age through a unique fintech and bank partnership. With a vision to be Australia’s number one consumer lifestyle brand, the time is right to scale Up through a deepened relationship and new product offerings from the Bank, whilst bringing Ferocia’s expertise to rest of the Bank’s highly engaged customer base.”

Up might be the biggest challenge to the big 4 you’ve never heard of.

To request an interview, contact media@up.com.au. A full release from Bendigo Bank can be found on their website

=== press-releases_up-launches-savings-based-solution-to-buy-now-pay-later_.txt ===

Up launches savings based solution to Buy Now Pay Later

Aug 01, 2022

Research released today by Up has found a quarter of Australians under 35 say Buy Now Pay Later has encouraged them to make purchases they regret, with the services evoking feelings of stress (29 per cent) and apprehension (30 per cent).

More than half (57 per cent) of young Aussies say they would be interested in a savings-based alternative to BNPL, and now Up is launching just that. Introducing Maybuy – a feature encouraging customers to celebrate the joy of their purchases safely, protecting from overextension, late fees and buyer’s remorse.

The latest offering to the country’s highest-rated banking app* means Up customers (known as Upsiders) can now create an automated savings plan for individual items they've found shopping online – dubbed a ‘Maybuy’. Once their goal is reached, they’ll be given the opportunity to purchase the item, or reconsider and keep the money they’ve put aside for something else.

At a time when approximately two in five (39 per cent) young Australians admit they’ve had multiple BNPL purchases active at once, and one in four (26 per cent) concede they’ve used the services despite feeling worried they may not be able to afford the repayments, the introduction of Maybuy is a timely reprieve that’s set to provide an ethical solution to support healthy and considered saving habits.

Up’s Head of Product, Anson Parker, says the temptation of BNPL services is real – and while they may have their place when well-managed, this new research by Up reveals a strong appetite for a savings-based alternative.

“Maybuy is a fun and easy way to buy things you actually love with money you actually have. That means there’s no regrets and no debt.”

“Our research uncovered almost a third (30 per cent) of young Australians found their purchases less enjoyable when paid over multiple installments. So, we want to give people more time to make decisions about what they buy, which in turn we hope will lead to increased purchase satisfaction and better financial outcomes,” Parker says.

“It also found over half (53 per cent) of BNPL users want to save money, but don’t know where to start. Maybuy offers a tangible solution and a savings launch pad to make saving feel a whole lot easier.”

To celebrate the launch of Maybuy, Up is hosting a limited-time pop-up store in Melbourne – The Maybuy Exchange – giving Aussies the opportunity to claim dollars back into their accounts in exchange for purchases they regret.

The experiential store is located in the heart of the CBD and will feature an ‘Anti-Impulse Machine’ where guests can physically swap previous impulse buys for the chance to get back anywhere from $10 to $500 (T&Cs apply). Encouraging people to think twice before making purchases they regret or can’t afford, The Maybuy Exchange will donate all impulse buys to a charity partner.

Joining Aussies on their savings journey is indie-pop duo Client Liaison, who confess they’re partial to an impulse buy or two.

“We’re no strangers to shopping online and the rush of buying things. But it’s often left us with ‘stuff’ we don’t really need or even want,” says Monte Morgan and Harvey Miller.

“As Upsiders ourselves, we’re stoked there’s now an alternative to Buy Now Pay Later. Whether it’s seeking out a new pottery wheel or even a new scooter, the time to ponder our purchase means we won’t lose sight of the things we’re completely in love with.”

Up is calling on Melbournians to bring these items to The Maybuy Exchange from Wednesday, 3 August until Sunday, 7 August. Located on the corner of Swanston Street and Little Bourke Street, the pop-up will be active from 11am-4pm across the five-day period.

Maybuy is now available to use through Up, across the App Store and Google Play.

Visit: up.com.au/maybuy for more details on Maybuy, The Maybuy Exchange and promotion T&Cs.

Notes to editor:

Commissioned by Up, an online survey of 1,000 Australians aged 16-34, representative of the Australian population with respect to state/territory and gender, was conducted between Friday 8 July 2022 and Tuesday 12 July 2022.

Media contact:

For interviews, images and further information, please contact alt/shift/ below:

Joanne Tramontana: joanne@altshift.com.au

Georgia Gogoll: georgia.gogoll@altshift.com.au

Key survey findings:

57 per cent of those surveyed expressed interest in a savings-based alternative to BNPL
27 per cent said BNPL services have encouraged them to make purchases they later regretted
29 per cent said BNPL makes them feel stressed
46 per cent of respondents don't think BNPL is a smart way to manage money
30 per cent said paying for something over multiple installments ended up making the purchase less enjoyable
53 per cent of BNPL users under 35 said they want to save money but don't know where to start
39 per cent of survey respondents said they have had multiple BNPL purchases going at once
26 per cent admitted they have bought something via a BNPL service despite feeling worried they may not be able to make the repayments

=== press-releases_up-makes-money-easy-on-tiktok-with-australia-first-gamified-effect_.txt ===

Up makes money easy on TikTok with Australia first Gamified Effect

Mar 19, 2021

TikTok creators are today playing the first ever Australian branded Gamified Effect thanks to a partnership between Up and TikTok. The new effect gives anyone on the TikTok platform the chance to play a 30 second game, munching as many coins as they can to show them who’s boss and potentially win a very real $1000.

Up’s Head of Product, Anson Parker said “It makes sense for Up to launch Australia’s first branded TikTok Gamified Effect. At the heart of Up is our goal to change the whole experience of saving and spending - because the more engaged and connected you are to your money, the easier it is to take control and build the life you want.

“Over the past 12 months we’ve been using TikTok as a way to connect with existing customers and meet new ones. We've found TikTok to be an effective and engaging way to do that, and by leading Australia with new ways to use the platform we’ve been able to show our customers that having a sense of humour and being good with money aren't mutually exclusive.” Anson said.

Brett Armstrong, TikTok’s General Manager of Global Business Solutions ANZ said “Up was one of the first brands we worked with when we launched our commercial business in Australia and they have always been open to trying new things and reimagining what’s possible for engaging with customers using TikTok. The ‘For You’ page on our platform gives the opportunity for any creator to go viral, and for branded creative effects like the one Up has launched with us today to be seen and used by our TikTok community all over the world. To see Up jumping at the chance to have a bit of fun with their customers is really surprising and unique for this category.”

The game will be live on TikTok from midnight, 20th March and anyone can play and take a shot at the prize up until 31st March. The TikTok Gamified Branded Effect campaign is part of Up’s new brand platform, Easy Money. To launch the campaign Up has partnered with some of Australia’s biggest TikTok creators including Georgie and Zac, Emily Johnson and Chantel Mila.

=== press-releases_up-most-trusted_.txt ===

Up: Most Trusted

May 31, 2021

The team at Mozo have wrapped up vote counting in the 2021 Mozo People’s Choice Awards for Banking - and the top consumer choice is Up. We’re stoked to announce that voters placed Up at the very top of consumer rankings for all of the following categories (our biggest ever haul):

Trust
Recommended
Service
App
Every day satisfaction
Satisfaction*

We’re thrilled to announce that Up has taken out awards for Outstanding Customer Satisfaction, Excellent Customer Service, Highly Trusted, Mobile Banking Experience, Customer Satisfaction, and Most Recommended.

The team at Mozo had this to say:

‘Up has dressed to impress this year, taking home a whopping six 2021 Mozo People's Choice Awards. The neobank not only won Australia's votes for trust and customer service, but it was also recognised for providing a top-notch bank account and mobile banking experience. It’s little wonder why Up was one of only a few providers to receive a Most Recommended trophy from its customers this year.

This isn’t Up’s first Mozo award either, with the neobank also catching the attention of our experts. The Up Everyday Account won a 2021 Mozo Experts Choice Award for Exceptional Everyday Account while its app has also received back-to-back awards for Excellent Banking App.’

More than half of new Upsiders join us on the recommendation of a friend, and we don’t hold that trust lightly. We’re proud to have earned it and will continue to work for it every day. Not least in our customer service team, who are thrilled to be recognised for their work chatting with customers 7 days a week through our app. ‘Excellent Customer Service’ is one of the things we’re proudest of here at Up, and we’re grateful to every Upsider who voted.

Some words of appreciation to you, our customers, from the Up Support team:

“Thanks so much to the Upsiders that shared the love for Up Support! It’s a real pleasure to talk with you everyday and we hope to continue to provide you with awesome service whenever you need us! UP YEAH!”

“Winning awards is special but also seemingly effortless when you have some of the best customers in the world.”

“Thank you for everything you've given us. It has been an absolute pleasure to interact with each and everyone of you over the last 2+ years, you're by the far the best customers in the land. We are well aware that we wouldn't be where we are today if it wasn't for our Upsiders. Thank you!”

“Thank you for all the love and support Upsiders! From the birthdays we share to the swapping of pet pictures, y’all are like our extended family. You really make each release more special then the next and are continuously putting a smile on our faces. We share this moment with you! If you ever want to have a chat, you know where to find us. Up Yeah!”

*Questions were posed to respondents as follows:

Recommend: Based on your experience with [brand] how likely would you be to recommend them to a friend or colleague?
Satisfaction: Overall Satisfaction with your experience with this provider
Service: Customer Service via phone, by email, online or face to face
Trust: Trustworthiness of the provider to treat you fairly and follow through on promises
App: Mobile Banking App satisfaction
Satisfaction everyday: Overall Satisfaction with your Everyday account

=== press-releases_up-protects-customers-from-harassment-with-dedicated-approach_.txt ===

Up protects customers from harassment with dedicated approach

Mar 19, 2021

In July 2020 Up received a message from a customer saying their ex-partner was sending abuse via the app. By August, Up had built new code - the first of its kind in Australia, specifically able to make a distinction between casual language and abusive behaviour - to protect all Upsiders.

At peak, Up was seeing around 20 confirmed cases of payment abuse per month. Despite being the fastest growing digital bank in Australia, they’ve reduced this number by combining intelligent search for abuse, with new tools like Block Payments that all Upsiders can use to protect themselves.

Abuse on banking apps is on the rise - particularly post break-up. Once someone has been blocked on every messaging app, one of the last ways to get to an ex is through messages attached to a small bank payment.

Nektarea Cameron-Smith, Head of Customer Experience at Up said, “We got our first report of payment abuse in July, and wanted to act quickly to ensure we were creating a safe space for our customers to bank.”

“When we were defining what we wanted our approach to be, we went broad. First, we looked at all transactions that contained profanities, but with a young customer demographic, there were too many false positives and we didn't want to police customers. It’s simply not our role to say what words are ok or not for them to use. And in the instances where abuse was successfully detected, the most common trait was that someone was sending out low value payments, and getting few or no transfers in return. When we reviewed the data across our entire customer base looking for those kinds of payments, we now had a much higher success rate for detecting payment abuse.

We've now supported a broad spectrum of customers through complex abusive situations, including, but not limited to payment abuse. People breaking up on bad terms, and people experiencing domestic violence, and/or financial abuse. People who just want some distance and peace after a bad break up. Maybe even mates who have fallen out over money owed.

We're all about creating a platform that makes money and transactions more conversational, but good conversations are two-way. So we’ve put a lot of effort into the question of how to stop payment abuse from happening, and more widely, how best to protect Upsiders.

So here’s what we now do when we detect abuse:

For the person receiving the abuse: we talk with them and try to offer the help they need in their particular situation. We offer support to stop the abuse in-app, and give them the option to remove any abuse received in the past from their activity feed. And of course, based on the customer’s individual experience, we refer them to appropriate support services like 1800 RESPECT, or Lifeline.

For the person sending abuse: in the small number of cases where the abuser is, for example, threatening violence, we will ban them from Up and offer all the support we can to their victim - including working alongside police and other support services. More often, we send abusers a warning notification alerting them that inappropriate behaviour has been detected and that their account will be closed if they (1) don't respond and comply, or (2) send any additional abusive payments from the point the warning is received.

They have a day to respond or their account is shut down in line with our T&Cs.

We know what you’re asking. Why don't we close all abusers’ accounts immediately?

The decision to not immediately close all of these accounts ASAP isn’t intuitive, but when we got deep into research and consultation with the organisations best equipped to advise, it ended up feeling right.

When we're supporting Upsiders receiving abuse, they’re often worried and stressed about triggering their abuser. They may not want us to act, as long as we can help block the abuse. We're never going to turn a blind eye to abusive behaviour, but we also want to be part of a community where we're not making it someone else's problem.

The act of closing someone’s account seemed not enough, and in some instances even amplifying. So our approach is to help protect the customers who are receiving abuse in a way that makes sense for them, warn and monitor the people who are sending the abuse to let them know it’s not ok, and help ensure it actually stops.

We’ve updated our T&Cs and depending on each customers situation, Up now offers the following solutions to keep Upsiders safe:

Payment muting: we can remove payment descriptions and the name of the payee from Upsider’s transaction history and statements (but we retain the data, in case the customer needs to access this in the future)
Payment blocking: Upsiders can block other Upsiders from paying them directly from within the Up app
Protected mode: Up allows people to find contacts, but Upsiders can choose whether or not they’re able to be found. It’s possible to tell Up that people need to have both your mobile number and Up PayID to find and pay you.
New PayID: we can update Upsider PayID details so that Upsiders can’t be contacted by someone who knows the old ones.

Next, we’re working on what we call, ‘safe account’. It doesn’t feel fair that someone who is already in a vulnerable position has to do more stressful admin to feel safe again. Losing all your transaction history and having to set up all of your direct debits again doesn’t feel right to us. So we're in the process of delivering a new feature to create a new BSB and Account number for Upsiders (basically a new account) and auto migrate all of their transaction history and direct debits.

=== press-releases_up-wins-in-mozo-awards-with-best-fixed-and-offset-home-loans_.txt ===

Up Wins in Mozo Awards with Best Fixed and Offset Home Loans

Feb 16, 2024

In a significant recognition of its innovative approach to digital banking, Up has secured top honours for its home loan products at 2024 Mozo Awards. The awards celebrated Up's outstanding offerings in the fixed and offset home loan categories, underscoring its commitment to providing exceptional value and support to its customers.

Peter Marshall, a judge for the Mozo Awards, lauded Up's achievements, stating, "Up has been a trailblazer in the digital banking space for a number of years, and it is fantastic to see the Up Home Loan now also taking out awards for delivering exceptional value.” The award highlights Up's dedication to revolutionising the banking industry and its focus on customer satisfaction and financial well-being.

Up's home loan options have been designed to meet the diverse needs of borrowers, offering competitive rate options, no upfront or ongoing fees, and valuable money-saving features such as 50 free offset accounts. Additionally, Up's low deposit requirements make it easier for more Australians to enter the housing market.

This year, over 475 home loan products from 99 lenders were scrutinised in the awards process. Up's ability to outshine in three separate categories is a testament to its innovative products and services. Marshall added, “We compared over 475 home loan products across 99 lenders for this year’s awards and for Up to scoop not just one, but three separate awards this year is to be commended.”

Up's achievements in the Mozo Awards reinforce its position as a leading force in the digital banking sector, committed to enhancing its customers' financial futures through thoughtful, customer-centric products and services.

For more information on Up Home visit up.com.au/home-loans

=== press-releases_up-wins-neobank-of-the-year-in-the-roy-morgan-annual-customer-satisfaction-awards_.txt ===

Up Wins Neobank of the Year in the Roy Morgan Annual Customer Satisfaction Awards

Apr 15, 2024

In recognition of staying ahead of the pack and knowing what its customers want, Up has been awarded the Neobank of the Year in the Roy Morgan Annual Customer Satisfaction Awards for 2023.

Michele Levine, Chief Executive Officer, Roy Morgan commented on how Up was one of two first-time winners to land in the Top 10 Roy Morgan Customer Satisfaction Award Winners with an average customer satisfaction rating of 93.5%, as well as winning all 12 monthly awards outperforming all competitors.

“The data that underpins the Roy Morgan Customer Satisfaction Awards comes from real people telling us how they feel about the brands and companies they interact with. They do so via our Single Source survey, for which we interview over 60,000 Australians each year across the nation,” said Levine.

“We ask respondents to tell us which companies they deal with in different categories and then to rate how satisfied they are with each. Each month we calculate monthly Customer Satisfaction winners in each of the categories as the year unfolds, and the annual award goes to the company with the most monthly wins,” said Levine.

Up’s Head of Growth Seb Neylan accepted the award last Thursday at Tonic House, and highlighted its pivotal role in Up's commitment to customer satisfaction and innovation.

"We are truly honored to receive the Neobank of the Year Award from Roy Morgan,” said Neylan.

“At Up, we believe in the power of listening to our customers and delivering beyond their expectations. This recognition reaffirms our commitment to understanding their needs and consistently exceeding them. We're grateful for this acknowledgment and inspired to continue revolutionising banking experiences for the next generation of Australians."

For more information on winners, click here.

=== press-releases_xavier-shay-appointed-as-ceo-of-up_.txt ===

Xavier Shay appointed as CEO of Up

Aug 16, 2021

Experienced technology leader Xavier Shay has been appointed CEO of Up, to spearhead the next phase of growth.

Xavier has a deep understanding of both financial technology and industry disruption. He spent nearly seven years in the United States building global fintech Square, where he most recently led their Payments Engineering and Analytics team. He was subsequently a leadership consultant for executive teams in the Bay Area, where he also developed and ran an Engineering Leadership course for Bradfield School of Computer Science. Prior to his move to San Francisco, Xavier led the development of a number of large commercial projects in Australia including at The Conversation, Clear Grain, and Redbubble.

Xavier returned home to Melbourne to join Up in April 2019. He has been instrumental in building and scaling Up, as well as leading the award-winning, Australian-first integration with industry disruptors Wise.

Up co-founder Dom Pym announced the appointment saying that “Xavier was the obvious choice for this critical new growth stage for Up. As a leader he’s already much-loved within the team, and he brings enormous experience and energy to the CEO role”.

Xavier is excited to continue his leadership role at Up into this next phase.

“I love working with this team, delivering a product that’s really making a difference for a new generation of Australians. Joining Bendigo Bank will help us move even faster in making Up better and better for our customers.”

To request an interview with Xavier, contact media@up.com.au.

=== pricing_.txt ===

The best way to spend and save.

Easy to try, no monthly fees, and features that help you save effortlessly and spend wisely.

No overseas
purchase fees

No overseas fees online or in-store.

No monthly fees

Practically no fees at all, actually. Free for most standard use. Details below.

Multiple Savers

Instantly create multiple Savers within the Up app. It’s easy.

Backed & guaranteed

Backed by the best, starting with: Bendigo and Adelaide Bank for banking, Mastercard® for payments, and Google Cloud Platform for hosting.

Deposits provided through the Up apps are protected by the Financial Claims Scheme, up to $250,000 per person (in aggregate across all deposit products held with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank).

Up Fees, Rates & Charges

Section M of the Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions (we recommend you read these) contains a complete listing of our fees and charges. Below is the information relevant to most people, most of the time.

Up Everyday & 2Up Accounts

Your Up & 2Up accounts are free for most standard uses. Interest is charged in the event your Up or 2Up account becomes overdrawn.

Monthly service fee	Free
Direct debits	Free & unlimited
Online payments	Free & unlimited
Deposits to Savers	Free & unlimited
Domestic ATM withdrawals	Free at most major Bank ATMs
Domestic ATM enquiry	Free at most major Bank ATMs
International transaction fees	0%
International ATM withdrawal	Free at most major Bank ATMs
International ATM enquiry	Free at most major Bank ATMs
Overdrawn interest rate	11.23% p.a.
Up Debit Card	Free
2Up Digital Debit Card	Free
2Up Plastic Debit Card	$10.00
Up Savers & 2Up Savers

Up Savers and 2Up Savers are free to use, and they pay 4.35% p.a. interest once qualified. You can transfer money to and from your Up Savers and your Everyday Account as much as you like. Rates effective from 1 July, 2023, and are subject to change.

Monthly service fee	Free
Base interest rate	0.00% p.a.
Bonus interest rate	

4.35% p.a. calculated daily, paid monthly once qualified and applied from the start of the qualifying calendar month. Base interest rate is paid when unqualified.


Qualification criteria	

To qualify for the bonus interest rate in a calendar month, make 5 successful purchases using your Up or 2Up debit card, Apple Pay™, Google Pay™ or other digital wallets in the same month. ATM transactions or transfers are not included.


Bonus interest rate cap	Once qualified, the bonus interest rate is paid on the combined balance of Savers up to $1M in your Up Savers as well as $1M in your 2Up Savers.
Withdrawals from Savers	Free & unlimited
Up Home

Please visit the Up Home rates and fees page for more info about our home loans.

=== privacy_.txt ===

Privacy

This page lists all Up Privacy related documents including our Privacy Policy and Disclosure Statements.

Privacy Policy

Applies to all Up accounts and financial products

Read more

Privacy Disclosure

Applies to all Up accounts and financial products

Read more

Credit Products Privacy Disclosure

Applies to all Up credit products

Read more

Notifiable Matters Statement

Applies to applications for credit and the management of credit facilities we provide.

Read more

Credit Reporting Policy

Applies to people applying for or holding Up credit products, including home loans.

Read more

=== privacy_credit-reporting-policy_.txt ===

Credit Reporting Policy
About this policy

We recognise the importance of protecting your personal information. This policy sets out how Up (as part of the Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Group) (‘we’, ‘our’ or ‘us’) collects, holds and discloses your personal information and credit-related information. Credit-related information includes credit eligibility information such as credit reporting information and credit scores that we obtain from credit reporting bodies and information that we disclose to a credit reporting body in relation to your credit application or credit facility you hold with us.

Information about how we handle your personal information is contained in our Privacy Policy which can be accessed here.

Types of credit-related information we collect, hold and disclose

We collect, hold and disclose the following types of credit-related information:

Identification details including name, gender, date of birth, driver’s licence numbers, current and most recent past addresses and current and most recent past employers;
Consumer credit liability information such as the type, characteristics and maximum amount of credit that we have provided, or will provide, or the date that any credit contract we or other credit providers have or had with you was entered into and the date that it is terminated;
Repayment history information in relation to consumer credit facilities provided by us or other credit providers, including whether you have made payments when due and if not when overdue payments have been made;
Financial hardship information, being a record that your payment obligations under your loan have been affected by an agreed financial hardship arrangement, which will be recorded with the repayment history information.
Details of previous requests made by a credit provider to credit reporting bodies in regard to credit applications including the date, loan amount and type of loan;
Details of any default information which is a record of overdue consumer credit loan payments of more than 60 days;
Payment information that an overdue payment in relation to which default information was provided to a credit reporting body has been paid;
Whether you have entered into a new arrangement with us or other credit providers in connection with credit provided to you;
Details of any judgments or writs which is a record of any Australian court legal proceeding relating to your credit;
Details of any bankruptcy agreements;
Publicly available information from your public file including present and past company directorships and business proprietorships;
Whether in our or another credit provider's opinion you have committed a serious credit infringement;
Information about your credit worthiness such as credit scores, credit risk ratings, summaries and evaluations.
Collection

We may collect credit-related information directly from you or from details included in your credit application. We may also collect from or confirm this information with a third party, such as a credit reporting body, government agencies, other credit providers, your employer, your accountant, solicitor or other personal representatives.

Holding

We keep the credit-related information that we hold about you secure to ensure that it is protected from loss, unauthorised access, use, modification or disclosure.

Your credit-related information will be stored electronically within secure environments and systems. Our employees and authorised agents are obliged and trained to respect the confidentiality of any credit-related information held by us.

Use and disclosure

We may collect, hold, use and disclose your credit-related information in order to:

Provide you with credit products and services;
Assist you with your queries or concerns;
Comply with any legal or regulatory obligations;
Perform our regular and necessary business functions (such as internal audit investigations, performance reporting, research, product development and planning);
Assess your credit application (including obtaining mortgage insurance);
Assess your suitability as a guarantor for a credit facility;
Assist with collection of overdue payments;
Assist with hardship requests;
Assess suitability to securitise loans;
Derive scores, ratings, summaries and evaluations relating to your credit worthiness. These scores are used in our decision-making processes and ongoing reviews;
Determine whether you are eligible to receive particular offers and invitations;
Participate in the credit reporting system and providing information to credit reporting bodies as permitted by the credit reporting laws; and
Deal with complaints and assist other credit providers to do the same.
Information we may collect or disclose to credit reporting bodies

We may obtain credit-related information about you from a credit reporting body.

We may also disclose your credit-related information to credit reporting bodies. Credit reporting bodies may include credit-related information provided by us in reports provided to other credit providers to assist them to assess your credit worthiness. Each credit reporting body has a policy for managing your credit-related information that you may access by contacting them.

In some cases a credit reporting body may use your credit-related information for pre-screening your eligibility to receive direct marketing from us or other credit providers. If you do not want a credit reporting body to do this you should contact the credit reporting body.

Credit reporting bodies we deal with

The credit reporting bodies we may disclose your personal information to, and their contact details, are:

Equifax
PO Box 964
North Sydney NSW 2059
Public enquiries: 13 83 32
Website: www.mycreditfile.com.au

Illion
PO Box 7405
St Kilda VIC 3004
Public enquiries: 13 23 33
Website: www.checkyourcredit.com.au

Experian
PO Box 1969
North Sydney NSW 2060
Public enquiries: 1300 783 684
Website: www.experian.com.au

Preventing identity fraud

If you believe that you have been, or are likely to be, a victim of identity fraud you should contact us immediately. You can also request that a credit reporting body not use or disclose your information by contacting the credit reporting body.

Disclosure to other third parties

We may share credit-related information with other third parties, including:

credit providers;
related companies;
financial advisers, accountants, mortgage managers, lawyers or other intermediaries acting in connection with any credit application;
current or prospective guarantors in relation to credit we are providing to you;
mortgage insurers;
government agencies;
organisations involved in debt assignment or securitisation arrangements.
Disclosure to overseas recipients

In some cases we may need to share some of your information with organisations outside Australia. For example, when we use service providers located overseas to perform a function on our behalf.

We may share your information with overseas organisations that are located in the following countries:

Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
France
Germany
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Israel
Nauru
The Netherlands
New Zealand
Philippines
Singapore
Spain
UK
US

When we share your information with organisations overseas we ensure appropriate data handling and security measures are in place.

Access and correction

In most cases you will be able to access your credit-related information held by us. You can do this by contacting us directly (see ‘Contacting us’ below).

If you believe that your credit-related information is inaccurate, incomplete, or out of date, you can make a correction request to us, to the credit reporting body or other credit provider who disclosed this information to us.

If you make a correction request to us, we will take reasonable steps to ensure that your credit-related information is accurate, complete and up-to-date. We may be required to consult with the credit reporting bodies or other credit providers to assess your request for correction. Where your credit-related information is found to be inaccurate, incomplete, or out of date, it will be amended.

If you contact us to correct your information and we do not agree that your information is inaccurate, out of date or incomplete, we will give you a written notice including the reasons why we reached that decision.

Changes to this policy

From time to time, it may be necessary for us to review this policy and the information contained in this document. We will notify you of any changes by posting an updated version on our website.

Privacy concerns or complaints

If you have concerns or wish to make a complaint regarding the handling of your personal information by us, please chat to us via the "Talk to Us" section of the app, call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au. We will promptly investigate your complaint and notify you of the outcome.

If you are not satisfied with the response provided by us, you may refer your complaint directly to the relevant External Dispute Resolution scheme:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3, Melbourne Vic 3001

Online: www.afca.org.au
Phone: 1800 931 678
Email: info@afca.org.au

Office of the Australian Information Commissioner

GPO Box 5218, Sydney NSW 2001

Online: www.oaic.gov.auPhone: 1300 363 992
Email: enquiries@oaic.gov.au

Contacting us

If you have any questions about our Privacy Policy, what personal information we may hold in relation to you, or about the way we manage your personal information you can chat to us via the "Talk to Us" section of the app, call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at privacy@up.com.au.

Last updated 1 July 2022

=== privacy_notifiable-matters_.txt ===

Notifiable Matters Statement

As part of assessing applications for credit and the management of credit facilities we provide, we disclose some of the personal information we collect about you, and your credit facilities, to credit reporting bodies. This statement provides the name and contact details of the credit reporting bodies to whom we may disclose your personal information as well as information about certain rights you have.

If you fail to meet your payment obligations in relation to consumer credit, we may be entitled to disclose this to the credit reporting bodies we deal with.

You may request access to the credit eligibility information we hold about you, seek that your credit information or credit eligibility information be corrected, or make a complaint to us about a breach of credit reporting laws by us.

Disclosure to overseas recipients

In some cases we may need to share some of your information with organisations outside Australia. For example, when we use service providers located overseas to perform a function on our behalf.

We may share your information with overseas organisations that are located in the following countries:

Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Fiji
France
Germany
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Israel
Nauru
The Netherlands
New Zealand
Philippines
Singapore
Spain
UK
US

When we share your information with organisations overseas we ensure appropriate data handling and security measures are in place.

Our Credit Reporting Policy

This statement should be read together with our Credit Reporting Policy which is available here or by calling us.

It contains information about:

how you can access and seek correction of your credit eligibility information;
how you can seek correction of your credit information; and
how you can complain about a breach of the credit reporting laws by us and how we will deal with a complaint.
Credit reporting bodies we deal with

The credit reporting bodies we may disclose your personal information to, and their contact details, are:

Equifax
PO Box 964
North Sydney NSW 2059
Public enquiries: 13 83 32
Website: www.mycreditfile.com.au

Illion
PO Box 7405
St Kilda Road
Melbourne VIC 3004
Public enquiries: 13 23 33
Website: www.checkyourcredit.com.au

Experian
PO Box 1969
North Sydney NSW 2060
Public enquiries: 1300 783 684
Website: www.experian.com.au

The credit reporting bodies may include the information we disclose to them in reports they provide to credit providers to assist them to assess your credit worthiness.

You can obtain a copy of each credit reporting body’s Credit Reporting Policy from its website.

You can also request that credit reporting bodies:

not use your credit reporting information for the purposes of pre-screening of direct marketing by a credit provider; and
if you believe on reasonable grounds that you have been or are likely to be a victim of fraud, not use or disclose your credit reporting information.

Last updated 1 March 2022

=== privacy_up-credit-privacy-disclosure_.txt ===

Credit Privacy Disclosure Statement
1. Collection of your personal information and credit-related personal information

Up is a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited, ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence 237879 (“we”, “us”, and “our”).

Tiimely Pty Ltd ABN 41 605 696 544 is our service provider and assists us in relation to the loan application, assessment and settlement processes, and collects, uses and discloses your personal information on our behalf.

We collect your personal information and credit-related personal information to assess your application, to provide you with the product or service that you have requested and to assess any future applications for products or services you may make to us or our related entities. We may also use the information you provide to better tailor our products and services to you. If you are a guarantor we collect your personal information and credit-related personal information to assess whether to accept you as a guarantor for credit applied for, or provided to, the borrower.

Collection of some of this information is required by the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006.

We use an automated digital identity verification process provided by GBG which involves the collection and use of biometric information in the form of a selfie, which is only used for the purpose of verifying your identity against your identity documents. You need to provide a separate consent to your identity being verified in this way (which is the first step of the process when we refer you to GBG). You can request an alternative method for verifying your identity by contacting us on 1300 992 700.

If you provide incomplete or incorrect information we may be unable to provide you with the product or service you are applying for.

As part of the application process, we will need to verify your identity. If you choose to use our automated digital identity verification process which involves you taking a photograph of your face (a “selfie”), you consent to us collecting and using your related biometric information for the purpose of verifying your identity. If you don’t, you will need to verify your identity using an alternative method. You can request an alternate method for verifying your identity by contacting us on 1300 992 700.

2. Collection of personal information and credit-related personal information about third parties

We may need to collect personal information and credit-related personal information about a third party from you as part of this application. If we do this, you agree you will advise that person that we have collected their information, and that in most cases they can access and seek correction of the information we hold about them.

3. Use and disclosure of your personal information and credit-related personal information

We may use your personal information and credit-related personal information to perform our business functions (for example internal audit, operational risk, product development and planning). We may also use your personal information to confirm your details (for example contacting your employer to confirm your employment and income details).

We treat your personal information and credit-related personal information as confidential and only disclose it to others where necessary. For example, we usually disclose your information to organisations to whom we outsource functions such as mailing and printing houses, IT providers, our agents and specialist advisers such as accountants and solicitors. Other disclosures usually include joint account holders, account operators and account applicants, Credit Reporting Bodies (as defined below), insurers, intermediaries, valuers, debt collection agencies and government authorities. Your information may also be disclosed to our related entities, our joint venture partners and Community Bank® companies where its confidentiality is maintained at all times.

4. Disclosure of personal information and credit-related personal information to overseas organisations

Some of the organisations we disclose your personal information and credit-related personal information to may be located overseas. Where an organisation is located overseas we will either take reasonable steps to ensure that it complies with Australian privacy laws or we will seek your consent to the disclosure.

5. Access to and correction of your personal information and credit-related personal information

In most cases you can gain access to and seek correction of your personal information and credit-related personal information. Should you wish to do so, or if you have any queries about your information, please contact us on 1300 941 461.

6. Collection, use and disclosure of your credit-related personal information
Equifax (previously Veda Advantage)

PO Box 964
North Sydney
NSW 2059
Public Enquiries: 1300 762 207
Website: www.mycreditfile.com.au

Illion (previously Dun & Bradstreet)

PO Box 7405
St Kilda Melbourne Vic 3004
Public Enquiries: 1300 734 806
Website: www.checkyourcredit.com.au

Experian

PO Box 1969
North Sydney
NSW 2060
Public enquiries: 1300 783 684
Website: www.experian.com.au

By completing a credit product application you agree that we can do all of the following:

a. Commercial credit-related personal information

Seek and use commercial credit-related personal information to assess an application for consumer credit or commercial credit.

b. Consumer credit-related personal information

Seek and use consumer credit-related personal information to assess an application for consumer credit or commercial credit.

c. Collection of overdue payments

Seek and use a credit report provided by a credit reporting body to collect overdue payments.

d. Exchange of information between credit providers

Seek from and use or give to another credit provider (including a credit provider who has lent money on the same security) any information or opinion about credit worthiness, credit standing, credit history or credit capacity.

e. Exchange of information with intermediaries

Seek from and use any consumer or commercial credit-related information from or disclose that information to, any introducer, financial adviser, accountant, mortgage manager, lawyer, or other intermediary (including any intermediary mentioned on the front page of this application form) acting in connection with any credit applied for or provided.

f. Provide credit information to credit reporting bodies

In this privacy disclosure statement, the "Credit Reporting Body" means each of the following organisations (whether acting individually or together):

Give to a Credit Reporting Body credit information. Credit information is defined in the Privacy Act and includes, to the extent applicable:

identification information;
consumer credit liability information;
a statement that an information request has been made in relation to you by us, or a mortgage insurer or trade insurer;
the type of consumer credit or commercial credit, and the amount of credit, sought in an application: that has been made by you to us; and
in connection with which we have made an information request in relation to you;
default information;
repayment history information;
financial hardship information;
new arrangement information;
court proceedings information;
personal insolvency information;
publicly available information:
that relates to your activities in Australia or the external Territories and your credit worthiness; and
that is not court proceedings information about you or information about you that is entered or recorded on the National Personal Insolvency Index;
our opinion that you have committed, in circumstances specified by us, a serious credit infringement in relation to consumer credit provided by us to you.
The Credit Reporting Body may include the information given by us in reports provided to other credit providers to assist them to assess your credit worthiness.

The Credit Reporting Body has a policy for managing your credit information that you may access by contacting them. In some cases a Credit Reporting Body may use your information for pre-screening your eligibility to receive direct marketing from us or other credit providers. If you do not want a Credit Reporting Body to do this contact the Credit Reporting Body. Where you believe on reasonable grounds that you have been or are likely to be a victim of fraud you may request a Credit Reporting Body not to use or disclose your information.

g. Provide information for securitisation

Disclose any report or information to another person in connection with funding by means of an arrangement involving securitisation.

h. Provide information to guarantors

Disclose any information to any person who proposes to guarantee or has guaranteed repayment of any credit provided.

i. Provide information to a mortgage insurer

Disclose your personal and credit-related personal information to a mortgage insurer when we apply to or otherwise deal with the mortgage insurer in relation to Lenders Mortgage Insurance for credit we provide to you.

The Mortgage Insurer we deal with is Helia Group Limited ABN 72 154 890 730, trading as Helia.

Helia has a Privacy Policy and Credit Reporting Policy which details how they manage any personal and credit-related personal information that we share with them. You can review the policy at https://helia.com.au/privacy-policy.

7. Privacy Policy and Credit Reporting Policy

You should also read our Privacy Policy and our Credit Reporting Policy which can be obtained at:

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited
80 Grenfell Street
Adelaide SA 5000
1300 652 220
bendigobank.com.au/public/privacy-policy

Tiimely Pty Ltd also has a Privacy Policy which can be obtained at:

Tiimely Pty Ltd
Level 7, 121 King William Street
Adelaide SA 5000
1300 992 700
tiimelyhome.com.au/legal-bits/privacy-policy

Each Privacy Policy contains information about:

how you can access and seek correction of your personal information;
how you can complain about a breach of the privacy laws and how a complaint will be dealt with;
if personal information will be disclosed to overseas entities and, where practicable, which countries those recipients are located in.

Our Credit Reporting Policy contains information about:

how you can access and seek correction of your credit eligibility information;
how you can seek correction of your credit information;
how you can complain about a breach of the credit reporting laws by us and how we will deal with a complaint;
if we disclose your credit information or credit eligibility information to overseas entities, and where practicable, which countries those recipients are located in.
Electronic Communication Consent and Authority

You consent to us communicating with you electronically. This consent and authority will apply to all communications permitted to take place electronically by law including, but not limited to, statements, notices and any disclosure documents that we are required to give you in relation to any facilities or products you hold with us. We rely on this consent to communicate to you by e-mail to the address you have notified to us; making a notice available for you to access on our website; and/or any other method of electronic communication. You should note that paper documents may no longer be given and that electronic communications must be regularly checked. Notwithstanding this consent, we may still decide to send you paper documents in certain circumstances including where electronic delivery is unavailable or we reasonably believe your email address is not receiving the emails we send. You may withdraw this consent at any time and change to receiving paper statements, notices and documents to your nominated mail address, by notifying us by phone or in writing.

Date of Publication – 13 June 2023

=== privacy_up-privacy-disclosure_.txt ===

Privacy Disclosure Statement

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited (ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879) (“we, our and us”) is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products and the Up apps.

Up is committed to protecting your privacy and respect your rights under the Australian Privacy Principles contained in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) (“Privacy Act”). By using this website or Up, you agree to and consent to the collection, use, holding and disclosure of personal information as set out in this Privacy Disclosure Statement and the Privacy Policy below.

In addition to any purpose notified to you at the time of collection, we use your personal information for the purposes of:

providing our services to you;
our internal management needs;
our marketing activities;
responding to any enquiries or comments that you submit to us;
any other purpose you have consented to; and
any use which is required or authorised by law.

Prior to disclosing any of your personal information to another person or organisation, we will take all reasonable steps to satisfy ourselves that:

the person or organisation has a commitment to protecting your personal information at least equal to our commitment, or
you have consented to us in making the disclosure.

Your personal information is collected to administer the relationship with you and to promote and provide you with products and services. If you do not provide your personal information (or if you provide incorrect personal information) you will not be able to use Up.

We may from time-to-time use your personal information to provide you with offers you may find of interest or for marketing purposes that we think will be useful to you. Our marketing communications will provide you with details of how to opt-out.

Our Privacy Policy contains further information about:

The types of personal information we collect
How we collect and use your personal information
Disclosure of your personal information to third parties, including those located overseas
How you can access and correct your personal information
How you can complain about a breach of your privacy, and how your complaint will be dealt with
How you can opt-out of receiving direct marketing communications; and
Who to contact should you have any questions or concerns about your personal information

Date of Publication – 14 December 2022

=== privacy_up-privacy_.txt ===

Privacy Policy

We recognise the importance of protecting your privacy. We are committed to ensuring the continued integrity and security of the personal information you entrust to us.

We appreciate that the success of our business is largely dependent upon a relationship of trust being established and maintained with past, current and prospective customers, shareholders and other individuals with whom we conduct business. We will therefore continue to collect and manage your personal information with a high degree of diligence and care.

Our aim is to comply at all times with the privacy laws (incorporating the Australian Privacy Principles) that apply to us. If you have a comment, query or complaint regarding a privacy matter, we encourage you to discuss it with us.

Collection

We usually collect personal information directly from you. Sometimes we collect or confirm this information from a third party such as a credit reporting body. We will use reasonable efforts to obtain your consent to do this.

We collect personal information that includes details such as your:

Identity information (Name, Date of Birth)
Contact information (such as phone numbers, address, and e-mail addresses)
Financial information such as information about your use of financial products and services which you acquire from or through us

In some cases, we may need to collect sensitive information about you such as:

health related information that is relevant to the services we are providing to you or that you have applied for; or
biometric information we collect and use for the purpose of verifying your identity.

We will first seek your consent to collect such information where we are required to do so.

As part of our business operations we collect personal information from other individuals such as shareholders and non-corporate suppliers. Where you are not a customer of ours you may still seek confirmation as to whether we hold information in relation to you. For the purposes of complying with our obligations under anti-money laundering laws, we are required to collect your personal information to confirm your identity and we may collect personal information about you from commercially available third party databases.

When you visit our website, apps or other web-based content and services (“Websites”), either we or our service provider will collect information including:

Information about your use of our services, including your login details, IP address, behavioural data, activity logs, and information collected by cookies.
Information about the devices you use to access our services including types of device, their operating systems, browsers, application settings, and location information. Information about the way you use your devices when accessing our services, such as the pages you visit, how you hold your device, scrolling, swiping or clicking activity, mouse movements and typing speed. We may collect and process this information to generate a ‘digital profile’ specific to you, which we can use to identify unusual behaviour.
Use and disclosure

We use your personal information in order to:

Provide you with financial products and services (including situations where we are an agent for another product issuer)
Assist you with your queries or concerns
Comply with any legal or regulatory obligations imposed on us
Perform our necessary business functions (such as internal audit investigations, performance reporting, research, product development and planning).
Identify and prevent fraud, scams and other unauthorised activity. This can include using your ‘digital profile’ and other behavioural information we collect to identify unusual or suspicious activity.

We may disclose your personal information to organisations that carry out functions on our behalf. This may include for example mailing and printing houses, electronic transaction processors, information technology service providers, fraud detection and prevention providers, professional advisers, account holders and operators, regulators and government authorities. Our agreements with these entities ensure your personal information is only used to carry out specific functions on our behalf.

We may disclose your personal information to an individual or an organisation (a “third party”) if:

You direct us to do so;
You consent to the third party obtaining the information from us; or
You consent to the third party accessing the information on our systems, and/or do anything which enables the third party to obtain access.

Your consent to a third party obtaining or accessing information may be implied from:

Your use of any service or application which a third party provides to you, or makes available to you, which involves the third party obtaining or accessing personal information held by us or organisations like us; or
You doing anything else which enables the third party to obtain access to the information.

You should never provide or disclose any of your pass codes to any third party to enable the third party to obtain or access to your personal information. If you do, you may breach the ePayments Code and the terms and conditions applying to the products and services we provide to you and you may be liable for any unauthorised transactions that subsequently occur. Pass codes include PINs, internet and telephone banking passwords, and codes generated by security tokens.

We may use your personal information to tell you about other financial products and services we think you may be interested in. This may include products and services offered or distributed by us or the companies we are associated with. You can opt out of receiving this information (see below - ‘Opting out of product promotions’). We do not sell your personal information to third parties.

We provide services to a number of business partners and their customers. In order to provide these services, personal information may be used and exchanged. The information is given the same level of protection and treated in the same way as for customers of ours.

Where we have collected your personal information on behalf of another party (for example, where we are an agent for another product issuer) the use of your personal information by that party is governed by their privacy policy. You should contact them to understand how they might use your personal information.

Discoverability

An Up customer that has you listed in their phone contacts under your registered mobile number may import that list into the Up app and see that you’re an Up customer, including your Upname and profile picture.

You may opt out from being found via your mobile number in the Up app from the Payments Settings screen.

Importing Your Contacts

You may choose to import your contacts into Up. If you do, we store the name and mobile number of each contact, so that you can quickly and easily see who in your contacts is an Upsider and pay them via Up, attempt a payment to a mobile number PayID in your contacts, or send an SMS invite to Up. This data is never shared outside the Up platform.

Disclosure to overseas recipients

In some cases, we may need to share some of your information with organisations outside Australia. For example, when you instruct us to carry out a transaction such as a telegraphic transfer to or from an overseas country, or when we use service providers located overseas to perform a function on our behalf.

We may share your information with overseas organisations located in the following countries:

Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Fiji
France
Germany
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Israel
Nauru
The Netherlands
New Zealand
Philippines
Singapore
Spain
UK
US

When we share your information with organisations overseas we ensure appropriate data handling and security measures are in place.

Access and correction

In most cases you can gain access to your personal information held by us.

We will take reasonable steps to amend or correct your personal information to keep it accurate and up-to-date. Please contact us if you would like to access or request a correction of your personal information (see ‘Contacting us’ below).

Opting out of product promotions

You can opt out of receiving direct marketing material at any time by contacting us (see ‘Contacting us’ below).

If you do opt out, we will continue to provide information in relation to your existing accounts or facilities only (including new features or products related to these accounts/facilities).

Storage and security of your personal information

We will take reasonable steps to keep the personal information that we hold about you secure to ensure that it is protected from loss, unauthorised access, use, modification or disclosure.

We will retain data related to your account for 7 years after we cease to provide financial services to you, in accordance with our regulatory obligations. We will delete your data when we are no longer obliged to retain it. Your personal information is stored within secure systems that are protected in controlled facilities. Our employees and authorised agents are obliged to respect the confidentiality of any personal information held by us.

You can help to keep the personal information that we hold about you secure by taking care before you authorise or otherwise assist any third party to obtain or gain access to that information (see ‘Use and disclosure’ above).

Our websites, app, cookies and event tracking

Our website and app use a variety of analytics and tracking tools designed to help us understand usage, fix bugs and improve the effectiveness of our marketing. These include, but are not limited to cookies, tracking pixels and app based event data.

These tools determine which parts of our website and app are visited most often, indicate when specific events occur (such as when an advertisement has resulted in you becoming a customer), or whether you visited our site from another party's website, and other sites you may visit from our website.

Sometimes we share this data third party service providers with whom we have an agreement to monitor the success of our marketing campaigns, make the advertising and communications we show more relevant or to provide core services and features on our websites. The third party service provider uses the instrumentation to collect information such as when you visited our site, your browser type, your IP address and other unique identifiers.

The information is used in an aggregate form and generally no personal information is collected by the third party service provider. Our agreements with these third parties ensure this information is only used to carry out functions on our behalf, and if any personal information is collected the confidentiality of that information is maintained.

Most internet web browsers and devices are pre-set to accept cookies and facilitate the eventing mentioned. However, if you do not wish to transmit this data you may configure your browser or device to opt-out or receive a warning when tracking instrumentation software is being used.

To amend your ad preferences for a specific social network see their privacy sections in your settings.

Changes to this policy

From time to time, it may be necessary for us to review our Privacy Policy and the information contained in this document. We will notify you of any changes by posting an updated version on our Websites.

Privacy concerns or complaints

If you have concerns or wish to make a complaint regarding the handling of your personal information by us, please chat to us via the "Talk to Us" section of the app, call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au. We will promptly investigate your complaint and notify you of the outcome.

If you are not satisfied with the response provided by us, you may refer your complaint directly to the relevant External Dispute Resolution scheme:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3, Melbourne Vic 3001

Online: www.afca.org.au
Phone: 1800 931 678
Email: info@afca.org.au

Office of the Australian Information Commissioner

GPO Box 5218, Sydney NSW 2001

Online: www.oaic.gov.auPhone: 1300 363 992
Email: enquiries@oaic.gov.au

Contacting us

If you have any questions about our Privacy Policy, what personal information we may hold in relation to you, or about the way we manage your personal information you can chat to us via the "Talk to Us" section of the app, call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at privacy@up.com.au.

Further information about privacy

You can find more information about privacy (including information about specific issues, answers to frequently asked questions, and the Australian Privacy Principles) on the Office of the Privacy Commissioner’s website at www.oaic.gov.au

European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)

If you are in a country that is a member of the European Economic Area (EEA), you may be protected by the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (‘GDPR’).

Application

This GDPR section of our Privacy Policy (‘GDPR Policy’) applies to you if you are in a country that is a member of the European Economic Area (‘EEA’) and you are protected by the General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (‘GDPR’) in relation to your personal data that we process or control (an ‘EU Data Subject’). We are the data controller under this GDPR Policy. If you are an EU Data Subject, the other sections of this Privacy Policy and our Credit Reporting Policy also apply to you, but they do not affect this GDPR Policy if they are not consistent with this GDPR Policy.

Principles

Your personal data will be:

processed lawfully, fairly, and in a transparent manner;
collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes;
adequate, relevant and limited to data necessary for the purposes for which the data is processed;
accurate and kept up-to-date where necessary;
kept in a form which permits your identification for no longer than is necessary for the purpose for which data is processed; and
processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security.

These principles are subject to applicable laws, including any limits or exceptions to these principles in the GDPR.

Processing your personal data

We will only process your personal data if you have given consent, or when it is necessary:

to perform a contract with you or to take steps preparatory to such a contract;
to comply with a legal obligation to which we are subject;
to protect your vital interests or those of another person; or
to perform a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in us.

We may also process your personal data if it is necessary for our legitimate interests or those of a third party. This includes processing for direct marketing purposes or preventing fraud, transmission of personal data within a group of companies for internal administrative purposes, processing for ensuring network and information security, and reporting possible criminal acts or threats to public security. However, this does not apply where these legitimate interests are overridden by your interests, or fundamental rights and freedoms which require protection of personal data.

We will not process your sensitive personal data, such as health information, racial or ethnic origin or political opinions unless you have given express consent for a specified purpose or in other special circumstances authorised under the GDPR, such as where it is necessary to protect your vital interests.

Generally, we retain your personal data while we have a customer relationship with you and to comply with any record-keeping requirements.

Your rights

Under the GDPR you have certain rights in relation to your personal data that we control. The following is a summary of the main rights which are in addition to any other rights that you may have under our Privacy Policy.

Access rights: You have the right to obtain confirmation of whether your personal data is being processed and the right to access the data (including obtaining a copy). We will comply with your request without undue delay. You also have the right to obtain information about the purposes of processing, the categories of data processed, the recipients, the envisaged retention period (or criteria to determine that period), your rights to rectify or erase data or restrict processing and to complain, information about the sources of data not collected from you, and about any regulated automated decision making, including the significance and envisaged consequences of the automated decision making for you.
Rectification: You may require us to rectify inaccuracies in personal data held about you.
Objection rights: You have the right to object to processing of data for direct marketing, processing based on our legitimate interests, and processing for research or statistical purposes. If you object, there may be compelling reasons why we are not required to stop processing your data (except in the case of direct marketing).
Right of erasure: You have the right to have your personal data erased in certain situations, including where the data is no longer necessary for the purpose for which it was collected or processed, or if you withdraw consent to processing and there is no other justification for processing.
Right to restrict processing: You have the right to restrict the processing of data in certain situations, such as where the individual disputes the accuracy of the data or has objected to its processing.
Profiling and automated decision making: You have the right not to be subject to decisions based solely on automated processing of data, such as profiling, if the decision produces legal effects concerning you, or similarly significantly affects you. However, we can use automated processing of data if it is necessary to enter into or perform a contract between you and us, if it is based on your explicit consent, or when it is authorised by law.
Data breaches

We will report a personal data breach to the relevant supervisory authority without undue delay unless we are not required to do so under the GDPR, such as when it is unlikely to result in any risk to the rights of individuals.

If the personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to your rights and freedoms, we will communicate the breach to you without undue delay, unless we are not required to do so under the GDPR, such as when we have implemented appropriate measures such as encryption.

Transferring personal data

We may transfer your personal data collected in the EEA to a country outside the EEA which has an adequate level of data protection, or if we have provided for appropriate safeguards and there are enforceable data subject rights and effective legal remedies available in the country.

We may also transfer your personal data outside the EEA:

if you have given your explicit consent to the proposed transfer after being informed of the transfer and the possible risks;
where it is necessary to perform a contract between you and us, or the implementation of pre- contractual measure; or
where otherwise permitted under the GDPR.
Contacting us

If you have any questions about our GDPR Policy, or if you want to exercise any of your rights under this GDPR Policy you may contact us by calling us on 1300 002 258 or e-mailing us at support@up.com.au.

Complaints

You can make a complaint in relation to this GDPR Policy to our Customer Feedback Team on 1300 002 258 or e-mailing us at support@up.com.au. You can also complain to your local data protection authority in the EEA. Contact details for those authorities are available here.

Date of Publication – 30 August 2023

Previous version

=== product-terms_.txt ===

Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions

Last updated Thursday, 5 December 2024

Table of contents

About this document
Contact details
Issuer
Key Features
Section A: Meaning of words
Section B: General terms and conditions
Section C: Cards
Section D: The Up app
Section E: Use and security of your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN
Section F: EFT Transactions – PIN, Passcode and mobile number generated transactions
Section G: BPAY
Section H: Automatic payments
Section I: Pay Anyone Service
Section J: PayTo
Section K: TransferWise (now known as “Wise”)
Section L: 2Up Joint Accounts
Section M: Fees & Charges
Disclaimer
About this document

Section last updated Thursday, 5 December 2024

View earlier versions of this section

This is an important document. It sets out the terms, conditions, fees and charges applicable to the following accounts and payment facilities provided to you through the Up app:

Personal Accounts
Up Everyday Account
Up Saver Account
Payment Facilities
Up app, to the extent that it facilitates payments (including by our Pay Anyone Service and BPAY®)
Debit Mastercard linked to an Up Everyday Account
Automatic payments (direct debits)

You should read this document carefully before acquiring any of the products to which this document applies. This document must be read in conjunction with the pricing page on the Up website - https://up.com.au/pricing/. Together they form the Up Personal Accounts Terms and Conditions.

We are committed to improved support for financially vulnerable customers, staff, suppliers, and our wider community. We recognise financial abuse can happen to anyone and may also include forms of family and domestic violence or elder abuse.

Our products and services must not be used to engage in financial or other abuse.

Examples of this conduct include, but are not limited to:

making defamatory, harassing or discriminatory comments to any person, including through payment descriptions or references;
using or encouraging threatening or abusive language;
engaging in coercive or controlling behaviour, eg to restrict a person's account access or use of funds; or
promoting or encouraging physical or mental harm to any person.

We may take steps to investigate circumstances where we reasonably believe any product or service is being used in this way.

We can take action, for example to close, stop, suspend, or deny access or use of our products or services, or to block or decline payments or payment methods, if we reasonably consider it necessary to protect you or another person from financial or other abuse. This is in addition to any other rights we may have under these terms. You should be aware that we may not be able to provide you prior notice before taking such action.

Contact details

Section last updated Friday, 31 May 2019

You can contact us via:

the Up app (on a compatible iOS or Android device)
telephone on 1300 002 258
or overseas on +61 1300 002 258
email on support@up.com.au
Issuer

Section last updated Tuesday, 19 July 2022

View earlier versions of this section

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited (ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879) is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products and the Up apps.

Registered address: The Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, Vic, 3550

®Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518.

Mastercard and the Mastercard brand are registered trademarks of Mastercard International Incorporated

Key Features

Section last updated Monday, 30 September 2024

View earlier versions of this section

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
& 2Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes*
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly*
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	Yes
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	Yes
Automatic Payments	Yes	Yes
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No
PayTo	Yes	No

*Up Saver Accounts and 2Up Saver Accounts are not interest earning, and no interest will be credited, during any period while we are treating the account as an offset account for a loan account or if you have told us that you do not want to receive interest payments in the Up App. See our Home Loan Booklet for details about when accounts are treated as offset accounts.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Section A: Meaning of words

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

In this document the following expressions have the following meanings:

"2Up account" means a joint account and each joint Up saver we open pursuant to Section K of this document.

"access method" means any method we make available to you to authenticate yourself to us for the purposes of transacting on and otherwise accessing your accounts. An access method comprises of one or more components (including, but not limited to, a card, a PIN, a passcode, recovery code, biometric identification, or any combination of these). It excludes methods involving a user's written signature.

"account" means an Up Everyday Account or an Up Saver Account we establish in your name except in clause 11 where it means any account you have with us (including accounts to which these terms and conditions do not apply). In Sections D and E of these terms and conditions (and defined terms when used in those sections), “account” also includes any Up loan account that we allow you to access through the Up app.

"ATM" means an automatic teller machine.

"bank" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence No. 237879

"Bank@Post™" means when you make a withdrawal, deposit or balance enquiry at a Bank@Post™ terminal in an Australia Post Office using a Up Bank card where this facility is available. Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

"basic NPP payment" means a transfer of funds processed through the NPP which does not use Osko.

"biometric identification" means the use of supported biometric identification features of your device, including but not limited to Touch ID, Face ID, and other fingerprint and retina scanning technology.

"BPAY conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the BPAY scheme as set out in Section G of this document.

"BPAY payments" means payments which you have instructed us to make through the BPAY scheme to billers who can accept payments made to them through that scheme.

"BPAY scheme" means the 'BPAY Payments' electronic payments scheme operated by BPAY Pty Ltd through which you instruct us to make payments to billers who can accept payments made to them through this scheme.

"business day" means any day on which banks in Melbourne or Sydney are able to effect settlement through the Reserve Bank of Australia.

"card" means a Debit Mastercard issued to you by us, that bears the Mastercard symbol, which is linked to an account and can be used to undertake an EFT transaction.

"contactless terminal" means an electronic point of sale terminal which is capable of performing a contactless transaction.

"contactless transaction" means the authorisation of a transaction by presenting a card (which is capable of performing a contactless transaction) or other device at a contactless terminal without the requirement to insert or swipe the card.

"device" means any electronic device such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer on which the Up app is installed or your Up account can be accessed and used.

"direct debit" means a transaction debited directly to your account by another party, under an arrangement that you and that other party have previously reached.

"direct entry payment" means an electronic transfer of funds processed through the Bulk Electronic Clearing System (BECS) administered by the Australian Payments Network Limited.

"EFT conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to EFT transactions as set out in Section F.

"EFT transaction" means a payment, funds transfer or cash withdrawal initiated using electronic equipment and not intended to be authenticated by comparing a manual signature with a specimen signature. An EFT transaction includes, without limitation, an electronic transaction undertaken using an access method via EFTPOS or an ATM, and a transaction undertaken using the Up app.

"EFTPOS" (Electronic Funds Transfer at the Point of Sale) means the system that allows you to make purchases or withdraw cash with your card by presenting it at a merchant's terminal.

"ePayments Code" means the ePayments Code administered by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), as amended from time to time.

"Government charges" means all charges or duties on deposits into, or withdrawals from your account that are payable under a law of the Commonwealth or any State or Territory or any other jurisdiction whether or not you are primarily liable to pay these charges.

"law" means common law, principles of equity and laws made by parliament (including regulations and other instruments under them, and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of them).

"Mastercard SecureCode" means the online authentication service provided for Mastercard cardholders when making online transactions at participating merchants.

"mobile number" means the mobile phone number you have nominated to use on or with the device or devices you use to access the Up app.

"NPP" means the New Payments Platform owned and operated by or for NPP Australia Limited.

"NPP Addressing Service" means the addressing service component of the NPP which facilitates the registration of PayIDs.

"NPP Payment" means a payment processed through the NPP and includes Osko Payments and Basic NPP Payments.

"PayTo" - The NPP functionality which enables us to process NPP Payments from your account in accordance with and on the terms set out in a Payment Agreement.

"Osko" means the Osko payment service provided by BPAY Pty Ltd.

"Osko Payment" means a transfer of funds processed using Osko.

"Pay Anyone conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the Pay Anyone Service as set out in Section H of this document.

"PayID" means a PayID (also known as an 'alias') which is able to be created with the NPP Address Service and used for the purpose of making and receiving NPP Payments (for example, an email address or telephone number).

"payment facility" means each of the following:

The Up app (including the Pay Anyone Service and BPAY), but only to the extent that it facilitates payments
Up Debit Mastercard
Automatic payments (direct debits) to an account
PayTo;

"PIN" means the Personal Identification Number issued by us or selected by you to use in conjunction with a card.

"recovery code" means the code given to you on sign up that you can use to recover your account

"regular payment" means either a recurring payment or an instalment which represents an agreement between a cardholder and a merchant to debit a card at predetermined intervals (e.g. monthly or quarterly) or at intervals as agreed by both parties.

"passcode" means a sequence of alphanumeric or other characters known only by you that are required as one of the access methods for your account and/or to use the Up app.

"Post Office" means Australia Post.

"stepped" means that different rates of interest will apply to different portions of your account balance.

For example:

if the rate of interest is 0.05% per year on that part of the account balance that is less than $2,000 and 1.5% per year. on that part of the account balance that equals or exceeds $2,000; and
your account balance is $3,000 the rate of interest applying to your account will be 0.05% per year on $1,999.99 and 1.5% per year on the remainder.

"Up app" means the software we offer on compatible iOS and Android devices, with which you can transact on and otherwise access a nominated account.

"we", "us" and "our" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL No. 237879.

"you" and "your" means the holder of an account. In relation to a 2Up account, “you” and “your” includes each joint account holder.

The singular refers to the plural and vice versa.

A reference to a document includes any variation or replacement of it.

A reference to anything includes the whole and each part of it.

All examples used in this document are for illustrative purposes only.

Section B: General terms and conditions

Section last updated Thursday, 5 December 2024

View earlier versions of this section

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, acting reasonably, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. Acting reasonably, we may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the Up app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. Acting reasonably, we can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account. However, we will not pay you interest on the credit balance of any account while:

we are treating it as an offset account in relation to a loan account (even if the credit balance of the account exceeds the debit balance of the loan account); or

you have told us that you do not want to receive interest in the Up App.

8.2. You can find the current interest rates for your account and any relevant qualification criteria at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au. If our website indicates that eligibility or qualification criteria applies for an interest rate (including any bonus rate) we will pay interest at that rate as stated on our website if you meet the relevant eligibility or qualification criteria.

8.3. We calculate interest by applying the applicable daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The applicable daily percentage rate is the relevant applicable interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.4 Interest is credited to your account monthly on the first day of each calendar month (for interest accrued in the previous calendar month). However, if you satisfy the eligibility or qualification criteria for an interest rate after we have commenced our end of month processing on the last day of the month (approximately 7pm AEST/AEDT), the crediting of interest to your account for that month at that rate may be delayed by a full calendar month and we will only pay that interest to you if you keep your account open until it has been credited.

8.5 We may change the interest rate(s) and any relevant eligibility or qualification criteria from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.6 If you have opted out of earning interest before 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, you will not earn interest on any of your Up Saver or 2Up Saver accounts (as applicable) for any day in that month and any day after that. If you opt out after 7pm on the last day of the month, you may still earn interest for that month

After you opt out of earning interest on your Up Saver or 2Up Saver accounts, you can opt back in at any time. If you opt back in before 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, you may earn interest for that month in accordance with these terms and conditions. If you opt back in after 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, no interest will be earned for any day in that month and you may earn interest starting the next month in accordance with the terms and conditions.

Any joint account holder can opt out or opt in of earning interest if you have a 2Up account.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you. However, we do not exclude liability for loss or damage to the extent it was incurred due to the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents, or a receiver appointed by us.

9.4 If we determine, acting reasonably, that a payment or credit to an account was an error, made by mistake (for example, where the sender entered or selected the account details by mistake) or was made in connection with fraud or a scam (including where the funds are the proceeds of fraud or a scam payment) we may return the amount to the sender or the person to whom we reasonably believe is legally entitled to the funds and debit the account. If we do, your and our rights and obligations will be the same as if the payment or credit was never made and we may make adjustments to the account to reflect this. If the payment is a mistaken internet payment we will act consistently with any other parts of these terms and conditions that deal with mistaken internet payments and the ePayments Code (where it applies).

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our right to make these changes is subject to the conditions in clause 18. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by the National Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may cancel a payment facility at any time if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account;
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened; or
it is reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or it is to benefit you.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the Up app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions, we may close the account without giving you prior notice.

Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include:

Behaviour that is defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person.
Behaviour that promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person.
We believe that your banking conduct poses a regulatory risk or is beyond our risk appetite.
We have reason to believe that the account is being operated fraudulently.
We have reason to believe that you have attempted to deceive Up, either knowingly or unknowingly.
We have reason to believe that you have allowed another person to use Up on your device or to impersonate you in Up.
We have reason to believe that your account is being used for business purposes.
Your account is opened with a zero balance, and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening.

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. Acting reasonably, we may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We can only make changes to the extent reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or to benefit you, including:

changes because of changes to our cost of funds or other costs of doing business or to ensure that we receive an adequate return on assets;
changes because of requirements of laws or industry codes of practice, prudential standards, court decisions, decisions of our dispute resolution scheme, guidance or directions from regulators, and similar reasons;
changes due to changes in the way we operate our business or our systems;
changes we think are necessary to fix errors or to make things clearer;
changes for information security or similar purposes;
changes to reflect market practice or standards or to keep our products competitive and meeting customer expectations and needs; or
changes made for other good reasons.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. We may use the certificate as evidence of the matter, unless it is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

27.14. We may only exercise our rights under a term in these terms and conditions to the extent (if any) reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests. This clause applies to a term in these terms and conditions, despite any other term, if it:

is subject to unfair contract terms legislation; and
is to our advantage; and
causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of you and us under these terms and conditions; and
would cause detriment to you if we applied the term or relied on the term.

Words used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the unfair contract terms legislation.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.15. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Section C: Cards

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

Up issues both digital and physical cards. Digital cards cannot be used at ATMs or in environments where contactless payment is not supported.

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply whenever we issue a card that is linked to an account to which this document applies.

28. Your Card

28.1. Cards are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

28.2. The issue and use of a card is at all times at our discretion. The card will always remain our property and must be returned to us on demand.

28.3. We may issue replacement cards at any time, for example when the cardholder has changed his or her name, or when the card has been damaged. If we issue a replacement card to you, you must not use the card it replaces and you remain liable for any use of the replaced card.

28.4. Before the expiry date of your card, we will automatically issue you with a renewal card unless you request us in writing not to do so. At least two months prior to your card expiring, you must notify us of any changes to your address. This will ensure our records are up to date in the event that we mail your reissued card directly to you.

28.5. If you wish to receive a physical card we will mail it to you via post. Once you have received the card, you are responsible for the security of the card.

28.6. You must choose a PIN for your card. We may ask you for this PIN at any time as further proof of your identity.

28.7. You may be required to produce suitable identification when using your card.

29. Using your card
Within Australia

29.1. You can use your physical card at ATMs to:

make withdrawals from your account; and
obtain account balances for your account.

29.2. Other financial institutions can determine from time to time what transactions can be carried out at their ATMs.

29.3. You can use your physical card at any EFTPOS terminal in Australia to purchase goods and services or withdraw cash from your account (providing the merchant operating the EFTPOS terminal has a policy which allows for cash withdrawals).

29.4. You can use your card at a contactless terminal to perform a contactless transaction if your card is capable of performing such transaction or if we allow you to register your card in a digital wallet. A cash withdrawal cannot be completed when performing a contactless transaction.

29.5. You can use your physical card at a Bank@Post™ terminal (however the Post Office may have restrictions and Australia Post reserves the right not to process a transaction) to;

make withdrawals from your Up Everyday account;
make deposits to your Up Everyday deposit account;
obtain account balances for your Up Everyday account.
Outside Australia

29.6. You can use your physical card to withdraw from your account at any ATM overseas bearing the Mastercard, Cirrus or Maestro symbol that allows you to select this option.

29.7. You should contact us via our contact details before travelling for information on use of your card overseas.

Within Australia and outside Australia

29.8. You can use your card to purchase goods or services via mail order, by telephone or by other means (such as the Internet) where the merchant accepts that form of payment.

Other

29.9. The fact that any promotional material is displayed at the premises does not mean that we guarantee that all goods and services available there may be obtained by using your card. We are not responsible if a merchant or financial institution refuses to accept your card, does not allow cash withdrawals or places other limitations on using your card.

29.10. To the extent permitted by law, we are not responsible for the following:

any goods or services which you have obtained from a merchant using your card;
any refund by a merchant.

29.11. If you have any complaints about goods or services, you must raise them directly with the merchant.

29.12. We do not warrant that ATMs will always have money available.

30. Card Transactions

30.1. All transactions need authorisation from us. We can refuse to authorise a proposed transaction if:

the transaction exceeds the cleared funds;
your card has been reported lost or stolen;
we have any other good reason to do so.

30.2. You authorise us to give information to other persons for the purpose of authorising transactions made using your card.

30.3. You authorise us to debit your account with the amount of any purchases, withdrawals and any other transactions made using your card.

31. Foreign Currency Transactions

31.1. Transactions in foreign currency amounts conducted using your card, may incur a fee. Current fees and charges are set out in this document. They are converted (depending on the foreign currency conversion) into either:

Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing; or
United States dollars and then into Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing.

31.2. The Australian dollar amount is then debited to your account.

31.3. When you use your card outside Australia you are bound by any exchange control requirements of the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Section D: The Up app

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply when you use the Up app.

32. Passcode and Biometric authentication

32.1. When you sign up for Up, you designate a passcode which you can subsequently use to authenticate with the Up app.

32.2. You acknowledge and accept that:

the mobile number you supply and your selected passcode together form the means by which we authenticate you when you use the Up app;
anyone using your mobile number and passcode will be able to authenticate themselves as you using the Up app, and hence will be able to access and conduct transactions on your accounts.

32.3. You authorise us to act upon all instructions given to us using your mobile number and passcode. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, you are liable for any such instructions.

32.4. We may delay acting on an instruction given by you when we reasonably believe it is necessary for us to do so.

33. Services Available Using the Up app

33.1. By using the Up app you may be able to:

review the balance of your accounts to determine the current or available balance;
transfer funds between accounts;
arrange recurring or future specific date funds transfers;
review the transaction history of an account;
review the details of a transaction on an account including the date of the transaction, the type of the transaction (such as a withdrawal or BPAY payment) and the amount;
select an individual transaction or a range of transactions on an account for closer examination;
access chat functionality which enables you to exchange secure messages with Up support staff. Sensitive information should not be submitted via chat (e.g. Tax File Numbers, Card Numbers. passcodes, PINs, etc);
make BPAY payments;
transfer funds using the Pay Anyone Service to any account at any financial institution within Australia using a valid BSB number and account number; and
Other actions and functionality, as we make it available.
34. Equipment

34.1. It is your responsibility to obtain and maintain any electronic equipment (e.g. computer hardware or smart phone) which you may need to access the Up app.

34.2. The Up app is available for iOS and Android devices and can be installed by using the app store functionality on those devices.

35. Access

35.1. You will only have access to an account using the Up app where:

the account is an Up account;
we have received no notification or we are unaware that the account is under a dispute of any kind with any other party or entity; and
we have received no notification or we are unaware that an application for bankruptcy or liquidation has been filed either by you, or issued or lodged by another person or entity.

35.2. In our discretion, we may require that you authenticate yourself in the Up app using two factor or progressive authentication before we accept your instructions for certain types of activities or transactions in the Up app. For example, we may require you insert a code we send you via SMS or other notification. Where we do so, we may refuse to accept your instruction until you have authenticated yourself as requested.

35.3. We will make reasonable efforts to ensure the availability of the Up app and ensure that information we make available to you through the Up app is correct. However, to the extent permitted by law, we do not guarantee the Up app will always be available or error free.

35.4. We may block access to the Up app at any time without notice if we believe either it is being misused by you or used without your authority.

35.5. You must only use the Up app on a device that has not had its operating software modified against the operating system provider's specifications or recommendations (i.e. it is not "jailbroken" or "rooted") and must promptly install and apply any operating system updates or security patches released by the operating system provider on your device.

35.6. We may temporarily block your access to the Up app at any time without prior notice to you in the event of any Up system malfunction.

35.7. We may remove your access to the Up app without giving you notice where you have not accessed the Up app for at least six months.

35.8. If you give us notice to cancel your access, you remain bound by these terms and conditions which may apply notwithstanding that your access has been cancelled.

35.9. Without limiting clause 35.4, 35.6 or 35.7, we may cease to allow you to access your accounts using the Up app, without providing any reason to you, at any time by providing reasonable prior notice to you.

36. Confirmation of Transactions

36.1. We will provide you with a transaction receipt number every time you make a transaction on your account using the Up app. You should record the transaction receipt number and it should be quoted if you or they have any queries in relation to that transaction.

36.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, records of transactions made using the Up app will be made available to you on the Up app immediately on completion of the transaction and as part of the associated account's transaction history for later viewing. You can save or print the transaction receipt at your own discretion. We will not provide you with a paper transaction record or receipt.

37. Our responsibility for the Up app

37.1. Subject to any other provisions of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Up app or a payment facility;
any malfunction or failure of any electronic equipment;
any malfunction or failure of any other system or software you use to access the Up app, including without limitation, telecommunications and ISP services;
any unavailability or failure (of which you should have been aware) of the Up app to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a passcode to permit you to access the Up app;
disclosure of information relating to your accounts through the Up app where the information has been obtained by or in conjunction with any person using your passcode or mobile number; or
any unauthorised access to your information transmitted by us through the Up app in relation to a nominated account.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

37.2. You acknowledge and accept that the Up app may only show transactions and balances current as at the previous business day.

38. Liability

38.1. You will be liable for all transactions on your account carried out using a supported access method. You authorise us to debit all such transactions to your account.

38.2. To the extent permitted by law, we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Up app.

Section E: Use and security of your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN

Section last updated Thursday, 11 April 2024

View earlier versions of this section

39. Protecting your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN

39.1. The security of your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN is very important. You may be liable for unauthorised transactions which you contribute to by not keeping your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN secure. Your liability is governed by clause 44.

39.2. You must ensure that you:

keep your card, recovery code, passcode and PIN secure and protected;
do not tell anyone your PIN, passcode or recovery code;
do not record your PIN, passcode or recovery code in electronic or written form.
do not select a passcode or PIN that is easily identified with you (e.g. your date of birth, your name or part of it or your phone number);
do not select a passcode or PIN that is a common or easily guessed combination (e.g. repeated or consecutive numbers such as 5555 or 1234);
do not provide your PIN, recovery code, passcode or card to any person (including a family member or a friend);
do not allow any unauthorised person to observe or hear your recovery code, PIN or passcode;
do not allow any unauthorised person to enrol or register their biometric information on a device in which the Up app is installed and not install or use the Up app on any device on which another person has enrolled or registered their biometric information;
only sign in to or use the Up app on a device which is and remains in your possession and is secured in such a manner that it is only accessible by you, such as with a personal identification number or passcode that only you know, or with a biometric system such as a fingerprint or facial recognition system that only has your biometric information enrolled or registered in it.

39.3. If you have a card you must also ensure that you:

keep your card in a safe place;
check regularly that you have your card in your possession;
do not record your PIN on your card or carry any record of your PIN in an undisguised form with the card. (Merely placing a couple of digits at the beginning or end of your PIN disguising it as a telephone number or birth date is not sufficient);
do not let anyone use your card. You may be legally liable if someone else uses your card and PIN, with or without your permission;
destroy expired cards; and
collect your card from the ATM after completing a transaction.

39.4. The following ways of recording a PIN are often deciphered by thieves and it is strongly recommended that these ways are not used for recording PIN's:

recording the PIN as a series of numbers with any of them marked, circled or highlighted to indicate the PIN;
recording the PIN with surrounding information that makes it stand out from its context. For instance, a PIN recorded as a 4 or 6 digit telephone number where all other numbers are 8 digits;
recording the PIN as a string of digits in isolation from other information; and
recording the PIN as a birth date, postcode or telephone number without additional features of disguise.

39.5. A reasonable attempt must be made to protect the security of a PIN. Making any reasonable attempt to disguise the PIN within the record, or prevent unauthorised access to the PIN record, includes but is not limited to:

hiding or disguising the PIN record among other records,
hiding or disguising the PIN in a place where a PIN would not be expected to be found,
keeping a record of the PIN in a securely locked container, or
preventing unauthorised access to an electronically stored record of the PIN.

39.6. You must not act with extreme carelessness in failing to protect the security of your PIN where extreme carelessness means a degree of carelessness that greatly exceeds what would normally be considered careless behavior. An example of extreme carelessness is storing your PIN in an unprotected computer or diary under the heading PIN.

40. Loss, theft and unauthorised use of your card, device, passcode, recovery code or PIN

40.1. You must notify us immediately if:

any record you may have of your PIN, recovery code or passcode is lost or stolen;
someone has stolen your card;
you have lost your card;
you become aware or suspect another person knows your recovery code, PIN or passcode or has used your recovery code, PIN or passcode without your authority;
someone steals your device;
you lose your device;
you change or otherwise lose access to or the right to use your mobile phone number; or
the biometric identification method on your device becomes compromised or another person has registered their biometric details on your device.
Safeguarding payment instruments

You should safeguard payment instruments such as card and registered device. Subject to clauses 40, 41 and 42 you will be liable for all transactions arising from the use of a payment instrument until you have advised us of its loss, theft or misuse. If any of the above payment instruments are lost, stolen or misused, you should contact us immediately.

Lost and Stolen cards:

In Australia contact us on 1300 002 258 Overseas contact us on +61 1300 002 258

Alternatively, phone +1 636 722 7111 reverse charges (this service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week), or visit the Mastercard International website at mastercard.com to obtain a toll free number for the country you are travelling in.

40.2. Any unreasonable delay in notifying us may expose you to liability for losses incurred as a result of unauthorised access or transactions. Liability for unauthorised transactions is set out in clause 44.

40.3. You are not liable for any unauthorised transactions which could have been prevented during any period of unavailability of all these contact points as long as you notify us within a reasonable time of a contact point becoming available.

40.4. When you report the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card, PIN or passcode, you will be given a notification number which you should retain as evidence of the date and time of your report.

40.5. You should confirm any verbal notification via the Up app as soon as possible.

40.6. If you find your card after reporting it lost or stolen, cut it up and do not attempt to use it. We cancel all cards reported lost or stolen.

40.7. You can arrange for an emergency replacement card if required, at the time of reporting your card lost or stolen.

41. Your Liability -- Non PIN generated transactions

41.1. You are not liable for any transaction performed without your permission, unless you have contributed to the loss by:

letting someone else use your card; or
unreasonably delaying notifying us of the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card.

41.2. If you did either of these things, we may hold you liable for all transactions carried out using your card up to the time you notify us of the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card.

41.3. A disputed transaction may include:

An unauthorised transaction -- a transaction which you believe was not authorised by use of the card or account by you. This includes any unauthorised telephone, internet or mail orders or any other unauthorised transactions on your account.
General dispute -- a transaction which you wish to dispute. This may include a transaction which has been processed to your account more than once, or a transaction which was authorised by the use of your card or account which you wish to dispute.

41.4. Despite notifying us of a disputed transaction, you remain liable for any purchase made by you.

41.5. Mastercard have a dispute resolution process that is contained in the operating rule of the card scheme. This process sets out the specific circumstances and timeframes in which a member of the scheme (e.g. a bank) can claim a refund in connection with a disputed transaction on a cardholder's behalf. This is referred to as a 'chargeback right'. We will claim a chargeback right where one exists and you have disputed the transaction within the required time frame. We will claim the chargeback for the most appropriate reason. Our ability to investigate any disputed transaction on your account, and subsequently process a chargeback is restricted by the time limits imposed under the operating rules of the card scheme. The timeframes for us to process a chargeback (where a chargeback right exists) vary between 45 days and 120 days, depending on the type of transaction. We will not accept a refusal of a chargeback by a merchant's financial institution unless it is consistent with card scheme rules.

42. Electronic transactions

42.1. If the ePayments Code is applicable to a disputed transaction, the timeframes as specified in clause 41.5 may not apply in certain circumstances.

42.2. Our ability to dispute a transaction on your behalf (where a chargeback right exists) may be lost if you do not notify us within the required timeframes. For this reason, it is in your interest to report any disputed transaction to us immediately and certainly no later than the due date shown on the statement of account. Where it can be shown that you have unreasonably delayed notifying us, you may be liable for the loss on any disputed transaction.

42.3. If a dispute is withdrawn or resolved in favour of the merchant, a voucher retrieval fee may apply.

42.4. Where a dispute is resolved in your favour, we will make the necessary adjustments to any interest and fees charged as a result of your dispute.

To report an unauthorised transaction, please contact us via our contact methods.

Section F: EFT Transactions – PIN, Passcode and mobile number generated transactions

Section last updated Friday, 31 May 2019

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code.

43. Liability for authorised transactions

43.1. You are responsible for all transactions carried out using a PIN, or your registered mobile number and passcode, by you or by anyone else with your knowledge and consent.

43.2. If the Up app malfunctions after having accepted your instructions or fails to complete the transaction in accordance with your instructions resulting in loss to you of some or all of the amount of a transaction, we will correct that loss by making any necessary adjustments to your account, including an adjustment of any interest or fee. If you consider that you have incurred additional losses as a consequence of the malfunction you may make a claim for any such loss.

43.3. If you are aware or should have been aware that the Up app was unavailable for use or was malfunctioning, then our responsibility will be limited to the correction of errors in your account and the refund of any fee imposed as a result.

43.4. We may withdraw electronic access to your account without prior notice to you in the event of any Up app malfunction.

44. Liability for unauthorised transactions

44.1. You will not be liable for losses arising out of:

unauthorised transactions where it is clear that you have not contributed to the loss;
the fraudulent or negligent conduct of our employees or agents or companies involved in networking arrangements or of merchants who are linked to the EFT system or their agents or employees;
any component of an access method that is forged, faulty, expired or cancelled;
unauthorised transactions occurring after you have notified us as required by these terms and conditions of the loss, theft or misuse of a card, forming part of an access method or that the security of a PIN, your passcode or mobile number has been breached;
transactions which require the use of a card or PIN linked to your account, and that occurred before you received that card or PIN from us (including a reissued or replacement card or PIN);
the same transaction being incorrectly debited more than once to the same account.

44.2. You are liable where we can prove on the balance of probability that you have contributed to the losses in any of the following ways:

through your fraud;
by you voluntarily disclosing the recovery code, PIN or your passcode to anyone, including a family member or friend;
by keeping a record of the PIN (without making any reasonable attempt to disguise the PIN or prevent unauthorised access to the PIN) on the one article, or on several articles, carried with the card, so that they are liable to loss or theft simultaneously with the card;
by keeping a record of your PIN or passcode (without making any reasonable attempt to protect the security of the records) on the one article, or on several articles so that they are liable to loss or theft simultaneously;
where we permit you to select or change a PIN or passcode, by selecting numbers which represent your birth date or letters which are a recognisable part of your name, if immediately before this was done we specifically warned you not to do so and that you might incur liability by doing so;
by acting with extreme carelessness in failing to protect the security of the recovery code, PIN or your passcode;
where the ePayments Code requires, that the recording or voluntary disclosure of one or more but not all of the codes forming part of the access method was the dominant contributing cause of the loss;
by leaving a card in an ATM which incorporates reasonable safety standards that mitigate the risk of a card being left in the ATM.

In these cases, you will be liable for the actual losses which happened before you notified us that the card had been misused, lost or stolen or that the security of an access method had been breached, but you will not be liable for any of the following amounts:

that portion of the losses incurred on any one day which exceed the applicable daily withdrawal limits;
that portion of the losses incurred in a period which exceeds any other periodic withdrawal limits applicable to that period;
that portion of the total losses incurred on any account which exceeds the balance of that account (including any prearranged credit);
all losses incurred on any accounts which we and you had not agreed could be accessed using the access method;
any losses incurred as a result of conduct we expressly authorised you to engage in;
any losses incurred as a result of you disclosing, recording or storing a recovery code, PIN or passcode in a way that is required for the purposes of using a service such as a password manager, or storing your codes in an electronic wallet on your computer which is expressly or implicitly promoted, endorsed or authorised by us.

44.3. Where we can prove on the balance of probability that you have contributed to the losses by unreasonably delaying notification after becoming aware of the misuse, loss or theft of a card forming part of the access method, or that the security of all the codes forming part of the access method has been breached, you are liable for the actual losses which occur between when you became aware (or should reasonably have become aware in the case of a lost or stolen card) and when we were actually notified, but you are not liable for any of the following amounts:

that portion of the losses incurred on any one day which exceed any applicable daily withdrawal limits;
that portion of the losses incurred in a period which exceeds any other periodic withdrawal limits applicable to that period;
that portion of the total losses incurred on any account which exceeds the balance of that account;
all losses incurred on any accounts which you and we had not agreed could be accessed using the access method.

44.4. Where we cannot prove you were liable under clauses 44.2 or 44.3 and a PIN or passcode was required to perform the unauthorised transaction, you will be liable for the least of:

$150;
the balance of those accounts (including any prearranged credit) which you and we have agreed may be accessed using the access method;
the actual loss at the time we were notified (where relevant) that the card has been misused, lost or stolen or that the security of the codes forming part of the access method has been breached (excluding that portion of the losses incurred on any one day which exceed any applicable daily withdrawal or other periodical withdrawal limits).

44.5. | You authorise us to debit any amount for which you are liable under this clause 44 to your account.

Section G: BPAY

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

45. About the BPAY scheme

45.1. This section applies if you ask us to make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

45.2. The BPAY scheme is an electronic payments scheme through which you can ask us to make payments to billers who inform you that you can make BPAY payments to them through the BPAY scheme.

45.3. We are a member of the BPAY scheme and we will inform you if we are no longer a member.

45.4. Access to the Up app is required to make BPAY payments through the BPAY scheme for Up accounts.

45.5. We are not acting as your agent or the agent of the biller when we make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

46. Using the BPAY scheme

46.1. When you tell us to make a BPAY payment, you must provide us with the following information in the Up app:

the account from which the BPAY payment is to be debited;
the BPAY biller code of the biller to be paid;
the amount of the BPAY payment; and
the biller customer reference number.

46.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a BPAY payment if you do not give to us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

46.3. We will then debit the account you specify with the amount of that BPAY payment.

46.4. We may decide not to make the BPAY payment if there are insufficient cleared funds in the specified account at the time you have told us to make that payment.

47. Payments

47.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a BPAY payment may be made or impose limits on the amount of BPAY payments.

47.2. We will not accept an instruction to stop a BPAY payment once you have instructed us to make that BPAY payment except for future dated payments which can be cancelled before the due payment date.

47.3. Billers who participate in the BPAY scheme have agreed that a BPAY payment you make will be treated as received by the biller to whom it is directed:

on the date that you make that BPAY payment, if you tell us to make the BPAY payment before our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 51 below);
on the next business day, if you tell us to make a BPAY payment after our payment cut-off time on a business day or on a non- business day; or
on the day or next business day, you have nominated for a scheduled payment to take place.

47.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a BPAY payment where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you tell us to make a BPAY payment;
you tell us to make a BPAY payment either on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day;
another financial institution participating in the BPAY scheme does not comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme;
a biller fails to comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme.

47.5. Although a delay in processing a BPAY payment is not expected to continue for more than one business day, you acknowledge and accept that a delay may continue for a longer period.

47.6. Regardless of when an immediate BPAY payment is made, the account from which you want us to debit the BPAY payment will be debited immediately.

48. If the amount of a payment to a biller is incorrect

48.1. You must ensure that the information in relation to each BPAY payment is correct. If you discover that you have instructed us to make a payment to a biller for an incorrect amount:

if the amount you instructed us to pay is greater than the required amount, contact the biller for a refund;
if the amount is less than the required amount, you should make a further BPAY payment for the difference.
49. When a Biller cannot process a payment

49.1. If we are notified that your BPAY payment cannot be processed by a biller, we will notify you and credit your account for the amount of the BPAY payment.

50. Suspension of BPAY

50.1. We may suspend your right to participate in the BPAY service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent manner.

51. Cut-off times

51.1. If you instruct us to make a BPAY payment before the time specified below, it will in most cases be treated as having been made on the same day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday 6:30pm (Victorian Time) Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

51.2. BPAY payments may take longer to be credited to a biller if you tell us to make a BPAY payment on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the biller does not process a payment as soon as they receive its details.

52. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

52.1. You must notify us immediately if:

you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the BPAY payment amount -- see clause 48.1) when instructing us to make a BPAY payment;
you did not authorise the BPAY payment from your account;
you believe the BPAY payment was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a BPAY payment.

52.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your BPAY payment in the way described in this clause. If a BPAY payment is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised BPAY payment will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause, we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme.

52.3. If a BPAY payment is made to a person or for an amount which is not in accordance with your instructions (if any), and your account has been debited with the amount of that payment, we will credit that amount to your account. However, if you were responsible for a mistake resulting in that payment and we cannot recover the amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who received the amount of that payment, you must pay us that amount and you authorise us to debit that amount from your account.

52.4. If a BPAY payment is made in accordance with a payment direction which appeared to us to be from you or on your behalf but for which you did not give authority, we will credit your account with the amount of that unauthorised payment. However, you must pay us the amount of that unauthorised payment, and you authorise us to debit that amount to your account, if:

we cannot recover that amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who receives it; and
the payment was made as a result of a payment direction which didn't comply with any requirements we may have for such payments directions.

52.5. If a BPAY payment is induced by the fraud of a person involved in the BPAY scheme, then that person should refund you the amount of the fraud induced payment. However, if that person does not refund the amount of the fraud induced payment, you must bear that loss (and you authorised us to debit that amount of the fraud induced payment to your account) unless some other person involved in the BPAY scheme knew of the fraud or would have detected it with reasonable diligence, in which case we will attempt to obtain a refund for you of the fraud induced payment.

52.6. If a BPAY payment you have made falls with the type described in clause 52.3 and also clause 52.4 or 52.5, then we will apply the principles set out in clause 52.4. If a BPAY payment you have made falls within both the types described in clauses 52.3 and 52.5, then we will apply the principles set out in clause 52.5.

52.7. If you tell us that a BPAY payment made from your account is unauthorised, you must first give us your written consent addressed to the biller who received that BPAY payment, consenting to us obtaining from the biller information about your account with that biller or the BPAY payment, including your customer reference number and such information as we reasonably require to investigate the BPAY payment. We are not obligated to investigate or rectify any BPAY payment if you do not give us this consent. If you do not give us that consent, the biller may not be permitted under law to disclose to us information we need to investigate or rectify that BPAY payment.

52.8. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme, other than loss or damage which is due to our negligence or a breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

Section H: Automatic payments

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

This section applies if you arrange for automatic payments to be made out of your account. Automatic payments are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

Types of automatic payments

53.1. If you give us authority, we can have regular payments made automatically out of your account on pre-set dates, advised by you. This type of payment is called a "direct debit". A direct debit is when a company, organisation or fund, sends direct debits to your account according to an authority which you need to set up through the company, organisation or fund receiving the money, allowing us to make these payments.

54. Arranging an automatic payment

54.1. The biller will supply you with a Direct Debit Request Service Agreement for you to complete and sign to provide them with this authority.

54.2. You must give us the information we require to enable us to make an automatic payment. This information may include the BSB and account numbers, and account name of the accounts from and to which payments are to be made. You must check that all information you give to us is correct (including, but not limited to, the BSB and the account number). We do not check, and are not responsible for checking, that any information you give to us is correct, including whether the BSB and account numbers correspond to the account name which you advise us. You are liable for any payment we carry out in accordance with your instructions.

55. Timing of the automatic payment

55.1. The details regarding timing of the payment will be outlined in the Direct Debit Request Service Agreement your biller has supplied to you.

55.2. You must ensure that you have sufficient cleared funds available in your account from which a payment will be made, to enable that payment to be made. If the payment date falls on a day other than a business day, those funds must be available by 10am (AEST/AEDT) on the previous day.

55.3. If you have insufficient funds in your account, any direct debits may be returned unpaid (dishonoured) to the originating third party.

55.4. A fee may be debited to your account in these circumstances. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

55.5. If you have insufficient funds in your account on three consecutive payment due dates, the authority will be cancelled and you will be notified via the Up app.

55.6. Subject to these conditions, when you instruct us to make a payment to an account held with another financial institution, we will endeavour to make that payment to the BSB and account number you advise us. If you give us instructions to make a payment on a business day after 10am (AEST/AEDT) on that business day, we may process that payment the following business day.

56. Liability

56.1. To the extent permitted by law and subject to any other provisions of these terms and conditions, we are not liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the automatic payment facility or any delay, omission or failure in respect of any payment. Without limitation, this includes, if you request us to make a payment to an account held with another financial institution:

any delay or failure to make a payment which results in a technical failure in the system we use to make a payment from your account with us to another financial institution; and
any omission, delay or failure on the part of the other financial institution in processing that payment.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

56.2. If we debit or credit your account under an automatic payment arrangement we are not acting as your agent or the agent of another person. We are not liable for any loss or damage to you from us not acting as you require.

57. Migrating a direct debit arrangement to PayTo

If you have authorised a merchant or other third party to debit your account as a direct debit arrangement and the merchant or third party migrates the direct debit arrangement to PayTo, the direct debit arrangement will cease to be a direct debit arrangement and will instead be treated as a PayTo Payment Agreement (see Section J (PayTo) for more information about PayTo and Migrated DDRs).

Section I: Pay Anyone Service

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

58. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

59. Using the Pay Anyone Service

59.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

59.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

59.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

59.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

59.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

60. Payments

60.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. Limits will be advised in-app.

60.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

60.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

60.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 64).

60.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately unless we enforce a delay (such as described in 60.8), in which case the amount will not be debited until that delay has elapsed.

60.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

60.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will generally be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

60.8. We may delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer (including an Osko Payment) for up to 24 hours when you are transferring to a payee account you have not made a Pay Anyone transfer to previously or where the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer is greater than the amount of Pay Anyone transfers you have made to the account previously. We may also delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer as described in clause 9.3.

60.9. In relation to transactions to or from the account, you authorise Up to disclose and collect information (including personal information) to and from other financial institutions, to the extent Up considers this reasonably necessary.

61. If a transfer amount is incorrect

61.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
62. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

62.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

63. Limit reductions

63.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

64. Cut-off times

64.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

64.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

65. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

65.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 61 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 66.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

65.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

65.3. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

66. Mistaken Internet Payments

66.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

66.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

66.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

66.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

66.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

66.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

66.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 66.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

66.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us on telephone 1300 002 258 from 9:00am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

66.9 If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 66.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

66.9. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

66.10. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayments Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

67. Incorrect Account Number

67.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

67.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

67.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

68. PayIDs

68.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

68.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

68.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

68.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

68.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

68.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

68.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service;
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID and.
third parties such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, accessing your PayID information for the purposes of creating and sending PayTo Payment Agreement creation requests to us to seek your authorisation and for the purposes of sending PayTo Payment requests, in connection with an authorised Payment Agreement, to us for processing from your Account.

68.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

68.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

68.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

68.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 68.17 below).

68.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

68.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

68.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

68.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

68.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

68.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

68.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

68.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

68.20. To the maximum extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

68.21. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Section J: PayTo

Section last updated Friday, 10 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

69. This ‘PayTo’ section applies in relation to your use or attempted use of PayTo and any Payment Agreement that is created for an account, and related PayTo Payments, if PayTo is available for your account. The Key Features Tables indicate the accounts for which PayTo is available.

PayTo allows payers to approve Payment Agreements with Merchants or Payment Initiators who offer PayTo as a payment option.

70. PayTo definitions

In this section and clause 68 (PayIDs), the following definitions apply:

Defined term	Definitions
Migrated DDR	A Payment Agreement created by a Merchant or Payment Initiator to process payments under an existing direct debit arrangement as PayTo Payments instead of through the direct debit system – see the ‘Migration of Direct Debit arrangements’ clause below.
Mandate Management Service (MMS)	The Mandate Management Service being a central, secure database of Payment Agreements operated by NPP Australia Limited.
Merchant	A merchant with which you have, or would like to have, a Payment Agreement.
NPP	The New Payments Platform operated by or on behalf of NPP Australia Limited.
NPP Payment	A payment cleared and settled via the NPP.
PayTo Agreement or Payment Agreement	An agreement created by an approved Merchant or Payment Initiator in the Mandate Management Service by which you authorise us to make payments from your account or a Migrated DDR.
Payment Initiator	An approved payment service provider who, whether acting on behalf of you or a Merchant, is authorised by you to initiate payments from your account.
PayTo	The NPP functionality which enables us to process NPP Payments from your account in accordance with and on the terms set out in a Payment Agreement.
PayTo Payment	An NPP Payment we make pursuant to a Payment Agreement.
71. Creating a Payment Agreement

You can set up a Payment Agreement with a Merchant or Payment Initiator that offers PayTo as a payment option by providing the Merchant or Payment Initiator with a PayID you have created for your account (see clause 68 ‘PayID’ above) or the BSB and account number for your account. You are responsible for ensuring that the PayID or BSB and account number you provide for the purpose of establishing a Payment Agreement are correct. Any personal information or data you provide to the Merchant or Payment Initiator will be subject to the privacy policy and terms and conditions of the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

If you agree to setup a Payment Agreement with a Merchant or Payment Initiator, they will create the Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service through their financial institution or payments processor and we will be notified.

After we receive notification that a Payment Agreement has been created for your account, we will notify you with the details of the Payment Agreement and ask you to confirm your approval of the Payment Agreement. You may approve or decline any Payment Agreement in your discretion and we will record whether you approved or declined the Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service.

If a Payment Agreement required your confirmation within a timeframe stipulated by the Merchant or Payment Initiator, and you do not provide confirmation within that timeframe, the Payment Agreement may be withdrawn by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

If you tell us that you approve a Payment Agreement it will be active once we record your approval in the Mandate Management Service. Payment requests may be made by a Merchant or Payment Initiator immediately after you have approved a Payment Agreement so do not approve a Payment Agreement unless you are sure all the details are correct.

If you think the payment amount, frequency or any other detail presented in a Payment Agreement is incorrect, you should decline the Payment Agreement and contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator to have them resubmit a new Payment Agreement with the correct details.

71.1 By approving a Payment Agreement, you:

authorise us to collect, use and store your name and account details and other details about you and the Payment Agreement from and in the Mandate Management Service; and

acknowledge that these details may be disclosed to NPP Australia Limited (who operates the Mandate Management Service) and the financial institution or payment processor for the Merchant or Payment Initiator for the purposes of creating payment instructions and constructing NPP Payment messages, enabling us to make PayTo Payments from your account and for related purposes; and

consent to us, other financial institutions and payment processors, NPP Australia Limited, Merchants and Payment Initiators using and disclosing such of your personal information as is contained in a Payment Agreement record in the Mandate Management Service as contemplated by the NPP regulations and procedures.

72. Payments

By authorising a Payment Agreement you instruct us to make PayTo Payments from your account in accordance with the Payment Agreement each time a PayTo Payment is requested by the Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to the Payment Agreement or their financial institution or payment processor.

It is your responsibility to ensure you have sufficient funds in your account to process each PayTo Payment. We are not required to make a PayTo Payment if there are insufficient cleared funds in your account at the time the PayTo Payment is requested.

72.1 Amending a Payment Agreement

We are not able to amend any other terms of the Payment Agreement including the details of the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

A Payment Agreement can be amended from time to time by the Merchant or Payment Initiator. If a Merchant or Payment Initiator seeks to amend a Payment Agreement, we will notify you of the amendment and request that you approve or decline the amendment. We will record whether you approved or declined the Payment Agreement amendment request in the Mandate Management Service.

If you think the payment amount, frequency or any other detail presented in a Payment Agreement amendment request we provide to you for approval is incorrect, you should decline the amendment request and contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator to have them resubmit a new amendment request with the correct details. We cannot change the details in an amendment request.

If you do not respond to a Payment Agreement amendment request within 5 calendar days it will expire and it will be treated as being declined by you.

We will record whether you approve or decline a Payment Agreement amendment request in the Mandate Management Service.

If you approve a Payment Agreement amendment request, the amendment will be effective once we record your approval in the Mandate Management Service.

If you decline a Payment Agreement amendment request, the Payment Agreement will not be affected by the amendment request and will continue as if the amendment request had not been submitted.

72.2 Pausing or resuming a Payment Agreement

You can pause a Payment Agreement, or resume a paused Payment Agreement, in the Up app or by contacting us. We will promptly act on your instruction to pause or resume a Payment Agreement by updating the Mandate Management Service. The Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to the Payment Agreement will be notified each time you pause or resume a Payment Agreement.

A Payment Agreement may also be paused or resumed by the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator. We will notify you each time a Payment Agreement is paused or resumed by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We may also pause any Payment Agreement that has been setup using a PayID if the PayID is locked or closed. If we do, we will resume the Payment Agreement once the PayID is unlocked or we obtain instructions from you that otherwise enables the Payment Agreement to be resumed (unless the Payment Agreement has since been cancelled). We will notify you if we pause or resume a Payment Agreement and the Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with the Payment Agreement will also be notified each time we pause or resume a Payment Agreement.

While a Payment Agreement is paused, we will not process any PayTo Payment requests we receive pursuant to the Payment Agreement. PayTo Payments will resume once a paused Payment Agreement is resumed.

Warning! Although pausing a Payment Agreement will stop related PayTo Payments being made from your account, doing so may breach the terms of your agreement with the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator or you may be required to make payment in some other way. We suggest that you ensure you understand the consequences of pausing a Payment Agreement before you do so and, if necessary, contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss that you or any other person suffers as a result of a Payment Agreement being paused by you or the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

72.3 Transferring a Payment Agreement

It is not currently possible to transfer a Payment Agreement between accounts with us or another financial institution. If you want to change a Payment Agreement, including to change it from one account to another, you will need to contact the Merchant or Payment Initiator through whom the Payment Agreement was set up.

72.4 Cancelling a Payment Agreement

You can cancel a Payment Agreement at any time in the Up app or by contacting us. We will promptly act on your instruction to cancel a Payment Agreement by updating the Mandate Management Service. The Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with your Payment Agreement will then be notified that you have cancelled the Payment Agreement.

A Payment Agreement may also be cancelled by the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator. We will notify you if a Payment Agreement is cancelled by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We may also cancel any Payment Agreement that has been setup using a PayID if the PayID is closed, unless we agree otherwise with you. We will notify you if we cancel a Payment Agreement and the Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with the Payment Agreement will also be notified that the Payment Agreement has been cancelled.

We will not process any PayTo Payment requests we receive from the Merchant or Payment Initiator pursuant to a Payment Agreement after it has been cancelled.

Warning! Although cancelling a Payment Agreement will stop related PayTo Payments being made from your account, doing so may breach the terms of your agreement with the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator or you may be required to make payment in some other way. We suggest that you ensure you understand the consequences of cancelling a Payment Agreement before you do so and, if necessary, contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss that you or any other person suffers as a result of a Payment Agreement being cancelled by you or the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

72.5 Migration of Direct Debit arrangements

If you have an existing direct debit arrangement with a Merchant or a Payment Initiator, the Merchant or Payment Initiator may choose to create a Payment Agreement for the direct debit arrangement to process payments as PayTo Payments instead of through the direct debit system.

If a Merchant or a Payment Initiator does this, you will receive notice from them that your future payments will be migrated to PayTo and you will then have the option of telling the Merchant or Payment Initiator that you do not consent.

If you do not advise the Merchant or Payment Initiator that you do not consent to your direct debit arrangement being migrated to PayTo, the Merchant or Payment Initiator may create a Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service that reflects the terms of your direct debit service agreement and the Payment Agreement will be deemed to have been approved by you. We will not seek your approval of a Payment Agreement that relates to a migrated direct debit arrangement.

Once the Payment Agreement has been created by the Merchant or Payment Initiator, you and the Merchant or Payment Initiator will be able to amend, pause and resume and cancel a Payment Agreement that has been established to migrate a direct debit arrangement, and you will be able to transfer the Payment Agreement, in the same way as any other Payment Agreement as set out above.

By permitting the creation of a Payment Agreement for a direct debit arrangement (by not contacting the Merchant or Payment Initiator and telling them that you do not consent), you:

authorise us to collect, use and store your name and account details and other details about you and the Payment Agreement from and in the Mandate Management Service;

acknowledge that these details may be disclosed to NPP Australia (who operates the Mandate Management Service) and the financial institution or payment processor for the Merchant or Payment Initiator for the purposes of creating payment instructions and constructing NPP Payment messages, enabling us to make PayTo payments from your account and for related purposes; and

consent to us, other financial institutions and payment processors, NPP Australia Limited, Merchants and Payment Initiators using and disclosing such of your personal information as is contained in a Payment Agreement record in the Mandate Management Service as contemplated by the NPP regulations and procedures.

73. General PayTo obligations

We will accurately reflect all information you provide to us in connection with a Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service.

You must:

ensure that all information and data you provide to us or to any Merchant or Payment Initiator that is authorised to use PayTo is accurate and up-to-date;

not use PayTo to send threatening, harassing or offensive messages to a Merchant, Payment Initiator or any other person;

where we allow you to provide a payment description or reference in connection with a Payment Agreement you must ensure that it does not contain, refer to or link to:

any swearing, profanity or offensive, discriminatory, threatening or abusive content;
any information that is confidential or must be kept secret;
sensitive personal information of any person (including information or an opinion about a person’s racial or ethnic origin, political opinions or membership of a political association, philosophical beliefs, membership of a professional or trade association, membership of a trade union, sexual orientation or practices, criminal record and health information);
anything which infringes the intellectual property rights of any person; or
anything which is illegal or seeks to promote illegal activity;

comply with all applicable laws in connection with your use of PayTo;

promptly consider, action and respond to any Payment Agreement creation request, amendment request or other notification we send you (if you use the Bendigo Bank app, we recommend that you allow notifications from it on your device to ensure that you promptly receive and are able to respond to such requests and notifications in a timely way);

immediately notify us if you no longer hold or have authority to operate the account from which payments under a Payment Agreement you have approved or permitted to be created are being or are to be made;

promptly notify us if you receive a Payment Agreement creation request or amendment request or become aware of PayTo Payments being processed from your account that you are not expecting, or experience any other activities that appear suspicious or erroneous;

promptly notify us if you become aware of a PayTo Payment being made from your account that is not permitted under the terms of your Payment Agreement or that was not authorised by you; and

comply with any direction we give you where doing so is necessary for us to comply with our obligations relating to PayTo including under the NPP regulations and procedures.

You are responsible for complying with the terms of any agreement that you have with the Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to a Payment Agreement (including any payment and notice giving obligations or termination requirements) and for dealing with the Merchant or Payment Initiator in relation to any concerns or complaints you have in relation to any goods or services relating to the Payment Agreement.

From time to time, we may request that you confirm that one or more of your Payment Agreements are accurate and up-to-date. You must promptly action and respond to any such request. If you fail to do so, we may pause the relevant Payment Agreement(s).

We may monitor your Payment Agreements for misuse, fraud and security reasons. You acknowledge and consent to us pausing or cancelling all or some of your Payment Agreements if we reasonably suspect misuse, fraud or security issues. We will promptly notify you if we pause or cancel a Payment Agreement for these purposes but only if we are legally permitted to do so. You must promptly respond to any notification that you receive from us regarding the pausing or cancellation of a Payment Agreement for misuse, fraud or for any other reason.

If you notify us of a PayTo Payment being made from your account that is not permitted under the terms of your Payment Agreement or that was not authorised by you and submit a claim, we will respond to your claim within 10 business days and, if the claim is founded, we will refund the PayTo Payment to your account.

74. Liability for PayTo

To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss suffered as a result of:

processing payments under a Payment Agreement which you have approved or are deemed to have approved;

you failing to properly consider or promptly respond to any Payment Agreement creation request or amendment request we send you;

you or a Merchant or Payment Initiator pausing, resuming or cancelling a Payment Agreement; or

any delay or failure in respect of a Payment Agreement or a PayTo Payment being processed due to the unavailability or failure of the Mandate Management Service,

except to the extent such loss is caused by us failing to comply with our obligations relating to PayTo under these Terms and Conditions.

Section K: TransferWise (now known as “Wise”)

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

75. About the Wise Integration

75.1. This section applies if you create an account with TransferWise Australia Pty Ltd (“Wise”) ACN 616 463 855 AFSL 513764 through the Up app or you link to or access an existing Wise account through the Up app.

75.2.  Wise provides international payment services. If you have a Wise account, you can link to and access your Wise account and instruct Wise to make international payments on your behalf through the Up app, rather than accessing your Wise account in other ways (for example, through Wise’s website).

75.3. Wise, and not us, is responsible for providing the international transfer service directly to you as its customer. The Wise terms and conditions that apply between Wise and you will apply in relation to any access to a Wise account and any Wise transfers instructed through the Up app.

75.4. If you create a Wise account through the Up app, you are contracting directly with Wise, and not us, in relation to your Wise account. Any international instructions you provide through the Up app are provided by you to Wise.

75.5. Under our arrangements with Wise, we act simply as a service provider to Wise to enable the integration between your Wise account and the Up app and, to enable you to deal with Wise, and create and/or access your Wise account conveniently through the Up App. It is Wise that receives and processes any international transfer instruction given by you through the Up App, from your Wise account.

76. Creating or linking your Wise account

76.1. If you create a Wise account with Wise through the Up app, you consent and agree to us disclosing your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) to Wise for the purpose of them creating your Wise account and providing its services to you.

76.2. If you link to and access an existing Wise account through the Up app, you consent to us and Wise disclosing to each other your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) for the purposes of linking and providing you with access to your Wise account through the Up app.

76.3. If you have access to a Wise account through the Up app (whether you created it through the Up app or not), you consent and agree to us providing your updated details (including your name, contact details and identification details) to Wise whenever you update your details with us or we otherwise become aware that your details have changed.

76.4. Collection, use and handling of your personal information by Wise is subject to Wise’s terms and conditions and privacy policy.

77. Using Wise through the Up app

77.1. When you make a Wise transfer through the Up App:

you are instructing Wise to process the transfer and must provide all the relevant information requested as directed through the Up App; and
you authorise us to debit the amount necessary to complete the transfer from your Up account and to pay it to Wise on your behalf.

77.2. You must ensure that there are sufficient available funds in your nominated account to process the debit relating to any transfer instruction you give to Wise through the Up app and that the information you provide in relation to the transfer is correct.

77.3. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to transfer any funds to Wise on your behalf if there are not sufficient available funds in your nominated account or we consider, acting reasonably, that not processing the transfer is necessary to avoid us or you suffering loss or to avoid a breach of any law.

77.4 You must notify us immediately if you did not authorise a Wise transfer related to a debit to your Up account.

77.5. Your liability and rights in relation to your Wise account and any Wise transfers you instruct through the Up app is determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract between you and Wise.

77.6. In seeking customer support related to your Wise transactions completed through the Up app, you acknowledge and agree that:

You may contact Up directly, using the Talk to Us feature in the Up app, for customer support and assistance with creating or viewing Wise transactions within the Up app.
Up is not able to directly assist you with issues relating to your Wise account, outside of the Up/Wise integration.

77.7. To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of creating a Wise account, linking to or accessing a Wise account or instructing any Wise transfers through the Up app.

77.8. If Wise returns any funds to us we will return the funds to your Up account.

78. Suspension of the Wise integration

78.1. We may suspend your access to your Wise account through the Up app at any time for any reason, including if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or illegal manner. Us doing so will not affect your rights and obligations in respect of Wise or your Wise account, other than that you will be unable to access the Wise account through the Up app.

78.2. We are not required to notify you before we do this but will notify you within a reasonable period after we do so. We may also notify Wise that we have done so.

Section L: 2Up Joint Accounts

Section last updated Thursday, 9 November 2023

View earlier versions of this section

79.1. This clause applies if we agree to establish a “2Up” joint account arrangement for you and another person, or any request that we do so.

79.2. A 2Up may have a maximum of two persons only and you may only be a party to one 2Up at a time.

79.3. We may suspend or close the operation of a 2Up or any associated 2Up account if we believe that a person associated with the 2Up has or has attempted to be a party to a 2Up or open a 2Up account in breach of clause 79.2 above or has otherwise not complied with this clause 79. If we close a 2Up account pursuant to this clause we will do so in accordance with clause 15.3 of these terms and conditions.

Establishing a 2Up

79.4. To establish and maintain a 2Up, each person who is to be a party to the 2Up must be an existing Up customer and each person must have and maintain separate individual Up accounts that are not 2Up accounts.

79.5. You and the other person who is to be a party to a 2Up with you must both request that we establish a 2Up or agree to being a party to the 2Up before we will agree to establish the 2Up.

79.6. By requesting that we establish a 2Up or agreeing to be a party to a 2Up, you agree and consent to 2Up accounts being opened, operated, suspended and closed as set out in these terms and conditions.

79.7. We may refuse to establish a 2Up in our discretion.

79.8. If we establish a 2Up, we will open a new joint Up Everyday Account in the name of you and the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you as joint account holders.

79.9. Each person who is a party to a 2Up may open joint Up Savers through the Up app in the names of the persons who are a party to the 2Up as joint account holders.

Understanding your 2Up account obligations

79.10. Your liability under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up is both joint and several with the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you. This means that each of you is liable both on your own and together for the whole of any debit balance on the 2Up, any amounts payable to us in respect of the 2Up account, and performance of all obligations under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up. You should carefully consider who you enter a 2Up with as you and that other person will be joint account holders and jointly and severally liable in respect of the 2Up account.

79.11. Each joint account holder on a 2Up account may transact on, authorise transactions on and give us instructions in relation to 2Up without the authority or consent of the other joint account holder. This means that any joint account holder can transfer money or make payments using the Up app or a card, or close the account, without the other’s consent.

79.12. However, at any time, any joint account holder may request that we restrict a 2Up account so that the account can only be operated on the joint instructions of all joint account holders, by contacting us (see our Contact details above). If we receive such a request in relation to 2Up, we will restrict the account as soon as reasonably practicable such that no transactions may be processed on the account, and the account cannot be closed, without the joint instructions of all joint account holders. This means that any cards linked to the account will not be able to be used to transact on the account and electronic payments through the Up app will not be able to be processed.

79.13. We may also restrict a 2Up account if:

we are notified of or otherwise become aware of any dispute between the joint account holders affecting the account;
we are notified or otherwise become aware of the bankruptcy of a joint account holder; or
we consider it to be necessary to prevent financial harm or abuse.

79.14. If we restrict a 2Up account, we may insist on joint written instructions being provided to us, in a form that is acceptable to us, as to how the account, or funds in the account, are to be dealt with in the future before we remove the restriction or reinstate access to the account.

79.15. You agree that each joint account holder acts as agent for the other and any notice or statement we give any joint account holder is taken to be a notice or statement given to all joint account holders, except where we are legally obliged to do otherwise.

79.16. You agree that each joint account holder may have access to information about a 2Up account or any associated 2Up account without the consent of the other joint account holder.

79.17. Each 2Up account is held jointly by the joint account holders. In the event of the death of any joint account holder, the 2Up account will be treated as the account of the surviving account holder only.

Closing your 2Up arrangement

79.18. You may request that we close a 2Up account only if all associated 2Up saver accounts have been closed. All associated joint Up saver accounts must be closed before your joint everyday account can be closed. If we have restricted a 2Up account so that it may not be transacted on or closed without the joint instructions of all joint account holders, you may be unable to close your 2Up until the joint instructions of all joint account holders has been received to close the relevant 2Up accounts.

Section M: Fees & Charges

Section last updated Wednesday, 3 April 2024

View earlier versions of this section

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal or Enquiry

When you make a withdrawal or enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: ATM operators may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. In Australia and many other countries, ATM providers must tell you if they're going to charge a fee, and the amount of the fee, and you have the option of proceeding with or cancelling the transaction or enquiry before the fee is incurred. However, in other parts of the world you won't always be notified that a fee applies or the amount of the fee. Any fees charged by an ATM provider will be debited to your account where you use their ATM, including in a country where the fees are not required to be notified to you before being incurred. We suggest reading up on your travel destination before you travel and, if in doubt, check the applicable fees with the ATM provider before using an ATM.

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

2Up Plastic Card

2Up cards can be ordered through the app for a one-off charge. Note: a digital debit card comes free with 2Up.

$10.00

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Note: Transfer of Australian dollars or foreign currency into any Bendigo and Adelaide Bank account may incur a handling or acceptance fee by the accepting bank and / or intermediary bank(s), (the amounts of which are not disclosed to us). These fees may be deducted from the total funds originally remitted.

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Disclaimer

Section last updated Tuesday, 19 July 2022

View earlier versions of this section

Up is designed, developed and delivered through a collaboration between Ferocia Pty Ltd ABN 67 152 963 712 and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879.

The Up software application is published by Up Money Pty Ltd ACN 624 373 084 on our behalf.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products provided through Up apps.

Registered address: The Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, Vic, 3550

® Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518.

BEN50TC076

Prior to 30 June 2019 our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_about-this-document_.txt ===

About this document

Current and historical versions of the About this document section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 5 December 2024
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 5 December 2024

This is an important document. It sets out the terms, conditions, fees and charges applicable to the following accounts and payment facilities provided to you through the Up app:

Personal Accounts
Up Everyday Account
Up Saver Account
Payment Facilities
Up app, to the extent that it facilitates payments (including by our Pay Anyone Service and BPAY®)
Debit Mastercard linked to an Up Everyday Account
Automatic payments (direct debits)

You should read this document carefully before acquiring any of the products to which this document applies. This document must be read in conjunction with the pricing page on the Up website - https://up.com.au/pricing/. Together they form the Up Personal Accounts Terms and Conditions.

We are committed to improved support for financially vulnerable customers, staff, suppliers, and our wider community. We recognise financial abuse can happen to anyone and may also include forms of family and domestic violence or elder abuse.

Our products and services must not be used to engage in financial or other abuse.

Examples of this conduct include, but are not limited to:

making defamatory, harassing or discriminatory comments to any person, including through payment descriptions or references;
using or encouraging threatening or abusive language;
engaging in coercive or controlling behaviour, eg to restrict a person's account access or use of funds; or
promoting or encouraging physical or mental harm to any person.

We may take steps to investigate circumstances where we reasonably believe any product or service is being used in this way.

We can take action, for example to close, stop, suspend, or deny access or use of our products or services, or to block or decline payments or payment methods, if we reasonably consider it necessary to protect you or another person from financial or other abuse. This is in addition to any other rights we may have under these terms. You should be aware that we may not be able to provide you prior notice before taking such action.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

This is an important document. It sets out the terms, conditions, fees and charges applicable to the following accounts and payment facilities provided to you through the Up app:

Personal Accounts
Up Everyday Account
Up Saver Account
Payment Facilities
Up app, to the extent that it facilitates payments (including by our Pay Anyone Service and BPAY®)
Debit Mastercard linked to an Up Everyday Account
Automatic payments (direct debits)

You should read this document carefully before acquiring any of the products to which this document applies. This document must be read in conjunction with the pricing page on the Up website - https://up.com.au/pricing/. Together they form the Up Personal Accounts Terms and Conditions.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_disclaimer_.txt ===

Disclaimer

Current and historical versions of the Disclaimer section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Tuesday, 19 July 2022
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Tuesday, 19 July 2022

Up is designed, developed and delivered through a collaboration between Ferocia Pty Ltd ABN 67 152 963 712 and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879.

The Up software application is published by Up Money Pty Ltd ACN 624 373 084 on our behalf.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products provided through Up apps.

Registered address: The Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, Vic, 3550

® Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518.

BEN50TC076

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

Up is designed, developed and delivered through a collaboration between Ferocia Pty Ltd ABN 67 152 963 712 and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879.

Up is a software application ("Up") provided by Up Money Pty Ltd ACN 624 373 084 ("Up Money"), a subsidiary of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products provided through Up apps.

Registered address: The Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, Vic, 3550

® Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518.

BEN50TC076

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_issuer_.txt ===

Issuer

Current and historical versions of the Issuer section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Tuesday, 19 July 2022
Monday, 15 November 2021
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Tuesday, 19 July 2022

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited (ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879) is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products and the Up apps.

Registered address: The Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, Vic, 3550

®Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518.

Mastercard and the Mastercard brand are registered trademarks of Mastercard International Incorporated

Published Monday, 15 November 2021

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited (ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879) is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products provided through Up apps.

Up is a software application ("Up") provided by Up Money Pty Ltd ACN 624 373 084 ("Up Money"), a subsidiary of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited.

Registered address: The Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, Vic, 3550

®Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518.

Mastercard and the Mastercard brand are registered trademarks of Mastercard International Incorporated

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

Up is designed, developed and delivered through a collaboration between Ferocia Pty Ltd ABN 67 152 963 712 and Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence No 237879.

Up is a software application ("Up") provided by Up Money Pty Ltd ACN 624 373 084 ("Up Money"), a subsidiary of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited is the issuer of all Up branded banking and financial products provided through Up apps.

Registered address: The Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, Vic, 3550

®Registered to BPAY Pty Ltd ABN 69 079 137 518.

Mastercard and the Mastercard brand are registered trademarks of Mastercard International Incorporated

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_key-features_.txt ===

Key Features

Current and historical versions of the Key Features section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Monday, 30 September 2024
Friday, 30 August 2024
Thursday, 23 November 2023
Thursday, 9 November 2023
Tuesday, 19 July 2022
Saturday, 31 July 2021
Monday, 17 May 2021
Tuesday, 31 March 2020
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Monday, 30 September 2024

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
& 2Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes*
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly*
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	Yes
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	Yes
Automatic Payments	Yes	Yes
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No
PayTo	Yes	No

*Up Saver Accounts and 2Up Saver Accounts are not interest earning, and no interest will be credited, during any period while we are treating the account as an offset account for a loan account or if you have told us that you do not want to receive interest payments in the Up App. See our Home Loan Booklet for details about when accounts are treated as offset accounts.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Friday, 30 August 2024

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
& 2Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes*
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly*
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	Yes
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	Yes
Automatic Payments	Yes	Yes
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No
PayTo	Yes	No

*Up Saver Accounts and 2Up Saver Accounts are not interest earning, and no interest will be credited, during any period while we are treating the account as an offset account for a loan account. See our Home Loan Booklet for details about when accounts are treated as offset accounts.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Thursday, 23 November 2023

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
& 2Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes*
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly*
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	No
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	No
Automatic Payments	Yes	No
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No
PayTo	Yes	No

*Up Saver Accounts and 2Up Saver Accounts are not interest earning, and no interest will be credited, during any period while we are treating the account as an offset account for a loan account. See our Home Loan Booklet for details about when accounts are treated as offset accounts.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
& 2Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes*
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly*
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	No
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	No
Automatic Payments	Yes	No
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No
PayTo	Yes	No

*Up Saver Accounts and 2Up Saver Accounts are not interest earning, and no interest will be credited, during any period while we are treating the account as an offset account for a loan account. See our Up Home Loan terms and conditions for details about when accounts are treated as offset accounts.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Tuesday, 19 July 2022

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
& 2Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes*
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly*
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	No
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	No
Automatic Payments	Yes	No
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No

*Up Saver Accounts and 2Up Saver Accounts are not interest earning, and no interest will be credited, during any period while we are treating the account as an offset account for a loan account. See our Up Home Loan terms and conditions for details about when accounts are treated as offset accounts.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Saturday, 31 July 2021

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
& 2Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	No
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	No
Automatic Payments	Yes	No
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Monday, 17 May 2021

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account
& 2Up Joint Accounts	Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	No
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	No
Automatic Payments	Yes	No
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Tuesday, 31 March 2020

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account	Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	No
Bank@Post™	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	No
Automatic Payments	Yes	No
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Terms and Conditions
Published Friday, 31 May 2019

The accounts to which this document applies have different features and some have restrictions. Set out below is a summary of the main features of, and restrictions applying to, the accounts. All statements for the accounts are provided electronically.

Section B: General Terms and Conditions explains the way in which these accounts operate.

The accounts described inside this document are not available for use by a business or for business purposes.

These accounts are available only to individuals over 16 years of age for private or domestic use.

Personal Accounts – Key Features Table
Feature	Up Everyday Account	Up Saver Account
Accounts can be Opened by	Individuals over 16 years of age	Individuals over 16 years of age
Minimum to Open	$1	$1
Minimum Balance to Maintain	Nil	Nil
Interest Earning	No	Yes
Interest Calculated	Not applicable	Daily
Interest Type	Not applicable	Stepped
Interest Credited	Not applicable	Monthly
Funds Availability	At Call	At Call
Access through the Up app	Yes	Yes
BPAY	Yes	No
Pay Anyone	Yes	No
Automatic Payments	Yes	No
Debit Mastercard	Yes	No
Terms and Conditions

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-a_.txt ===

Section A: Meaning of words

Current and historical versions of the Section A: Meaning of words section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Tuesday, 19 July 2022
Saturday, 31 July 2021
Saturday, 15 May 2021
Tuesday, 31 March 2020
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

In this document the following expressions have the following meanings:

"2Up account" means a joint account and each joint Up saver we open pursuant to Section K of this document.

"access method" means any method we make available to you to authenticate yourself to us for the purposes of transacting on and otherwise accessing your accounts. An access method comprises of one or more components (including, but not limited to, a card, a PIN, a passcode, recovery code, biometric identification, or any combination of these). It excludes methods involving a user's written signature.

"account" means an Up Everyday Account or an Up Saver Account we establish in your name except in clause 11 where it means any account you have with us (including accounts to which these terms and conditions do not apply). In Sections D and E of these terms and conditions (and defined terms when used in those sections), “account” also includes any Up loan account that we allow you to access through the Up app.

"ATM" means an automatic teller machine.

"bank" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence No. 237879

"Bank@Post™" means when you make a withdrawal, deposit or balance enquiry at a Bank@Post™ terminal in an Australia Post Office using a Up Bank card where this facility is available. Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

"basic NPP payment" means a transfer of funds processed through the NPP which does not use Osko.

"biometric identification" means the use of supported biometric identification features of your device, including but not limited to Touch ID, Face ID, and other fingerprint and retina scanning technology.

"BPAY conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the BPAY scheme as set out in Section G of this document.

"BPAY payments" means payments which you have instructed us to make through the BPAY scheme to billers who can accept payments made to them through that scheme.

"BPAY scheme" means the 'BPAY Payments' electronic payments scheme operated by BPAY Pty Ltd through which you instruct us to make payments to billers who can accept payments made to them through this scheme.

"business day" means any day on which banks in Melbourne or Sydney are able to effect settlement through the Reserve Bank of Australia.

"card" means a Debit Mastercard issued to you by us, that bears the Mastercard symbol, which is linked to an account and can be used to undertake an EFT transaction.

"contactless terminal" means an electronic point of sale terminal which is capable of performing a contactless transaction.

"contactless transaction" means the authorisation of a transaction by presenting a card (which is capable of performing a contactless transaction) or other device at a contactless terminal without the requirement to insert or swipe the card.

"device" means any electronic device such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer on which the Up app is installed or your Up account can be accessed and used.

"direct debit" means a transaction debited directly to your account by another party, under an arrangement that you and that other party have previously reached.

"direct entry payment" means an electronic transfer of funds processed through the Bulk Electronic Clearing System (BECS) administered by the Australian Payments Network Limited.

"EFT conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to EFT transactions as set out in Section F.

"EFT transaction" means a payment, funds transfer or cash withdrawal initiated using electronic equipment and not intended to be authenticated by comparing a manual signature with a specimen signature. An EFT transaction includes, without limitation, an electronic transaction undertaken using an access method via EFTPOS or an ATM, and a transaction undertaken using the Up app.

"EFTPOS" (Electronic Funds Transfer at the Point of Sale) means the system that allows you to make purchases or withdraw cash with your card by presenting it at a merchant's terminal.

"ePayments Code" means the ePayments Code administered by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), as amended from time to time.

"Government charges" means all charges or duties on deposits into, or withdrawals from your account that are payable under a law of the Commonwealth or any State or Territory or any other jurisdiction whether or not you are primarily liable to pay these charges.

"law" means common law, principles of equity and laws made by parliament (including regulations and other instruments under them, and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of them).

"Mastercard SecureCode" means the online authentication service provided for Mastercard cardholders when making online transactions at participating merchants.

"mobile number" means the mobile phone number you have nominated to use on or with the device or devices you use to access the Up app.

"NPP" means the New Payments Platform owned and operated by or for NPP Australia Limited.

"NPP Addressing Service" means the addressing service component of the NPP which facilitates the registration of PayIDs.

"NPP Payment" means a payment processed through the NPP and includes Osko Payments and Basic NPP Payments.

"PayTo" - The NPP functionality which enables us to process NPP Payments from your account in accordance with and on the terms set out in a Payment Agreement.

"Osko" means the Osko payment service provided by BPAY Pty Ltd.

"Osko Payment" means a transfer of funds processed using Osko.

"Pay Anyone conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the Pay Anyone Service as set out in Section H of this document.

"PayID" means a PayID (also known as an 'alias') which is able to be created with the NPP Address Service and used for the purpose of making and receiving NPP Payments (for example, an email address or telephone number).

"payment facility" means each of the following:

The Up app (including the Pay Anyone Service and BPAY), but only to the extent that it facilitates payments
Up Debit Mastercard
Automatic payments (direct debits) to an account
PayTo;

"PIN" means the Personal Identification Number issued by us or selected by you to use in conjunction with a card.

"recovery code" means the code given to you on sign up that you can use to recover your account

"regular payment" means either a recurring payment or an instalment which represents an agreement between a cardholder and a merchant to debit a card at predetermined intervals (e.g. monthly or quarterly) or at intervals as agreed by both parties.

"passcode" means a sequence of alphanumeric or other characters known only by you that are required as one of the access methods for your account and/or to use the Up app.

"Post Office" means Australia Post.

"stepped" means that different rates of interest will apply to different portions of your account balance.

For example:

if the rate of interest is 0.05% per year on that part of the account balance that is less than $2,000 and 1.5% per year. on that part of the account balance that equals or exceeds $2,000; and
your account balance is $3,000 the rate of interest applying to your account will be 0.05% per year on $1,999.99 and 1.5% per year on the remainder.

"Up app" means the software we offer on compatible iOS and Android devices, with which you can transact on and otherwise access a nominated account.

"we", "us" and "our" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL No. 237879.

"you" and "your" means the holder of an account. In relation to a 2Up account, “you” and “your” includes each joint account holder.

The singular refers to the plural and vice versa.

A reference to a document includes any variation or replacement of it.

A reference to anything includes the whole and each part of it.

All examples used in this document are for illustrative purposes only.

Published Tuesday, 19 July 2022

In this document the following expressions have the following meanings:

"2Up account" means a joint account and each joint Up saver we open pursuant to Section K of this document.

"access method" means any method we make available to you to authenticate yourself to us for the purposes of transacting on and otherwise accessing your accounts. An access method comprises of one or more components (including, but not limited to, a card, a PIN, a passcode, recovery code, biometric identification, or any combination of these). It excludes methods involving a user's written signature.

"account" means an Up Everyday Account or an Up Saver Account we establish in your name except in clause 11 where it means any account you have with us (including accounts to which these terms and conditions do not apply). In Sections D and E of these terms and conditions (and defined terms when used in those sections), “account” also includes any Up loan account that we allow you to access through the Up app.

"ATM" means an automatic teller machine.

"bank" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence No. 237879

"Bank@Post™" means when you make a withdrawal, deposit or balance enquiry at a Bank@Post™ terminal in an Australia Post Office using a Up Bank card where this facility is available. Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

"basic NPP payment" means a transfer of funds processed through the NPP which does not use Osko.

"biometric identification" means the use of supported biometric identification features of your device, including but not limited to Touch ID, Face ID, and other fingerprint and retina scanning technology.

"BPAY conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the BPAY scheme as set out in Section G of this document.

"BPAY payments" means payments which you have instructed us to make through the BPAY scheme to billers who can accept payments made to them through that scheme.

"BPAY scheme" means the 'BPAY Payments' electronic payments scheme operated by BPAY Pty Ltd through which you instruct us to make payments to billers who can accept payments made to them through this scheme.

"business day" means any day on which banks in Melbourne or Sydney are able to effect settlement through the Reserve Bank of Australia.

"card" means a Debit Mastercard issued to you by us, that bears the Mastercard symbol, which is linked to an account and can be used to undertake an EFT transaction.

"contactless terminal" means an electronic point of sale terminal which is capable of performing a contactless transaction.

"contactless transaction" means the authorisation of a transaction by presenting a card (which is capable of performing a contactless transaction) or other device at a contactless terminal without the requirement to insert or swipe the card.

"device" means any electronic device such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer on which the Up app is installed or your Up account can be accessed and used.

"direct debit" means a transaction debited directly to your account by another party, under an arrangement that you and that other party have previously reached.

"direct entry payment" means an electronic transfer of funds processed through the Bulk Electronic Clearing System (BECS) administered by the Australian Payments Network Limited.

"EFT conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to EFT transactions as set out in Section F.

"EFT transaction" means a payment, funds transfer or cash withdrawal initiated using electronic equipment and not intended to be authenticated by comparing a manual signature with a specimen signature. An EFT transaction includes, without limitation, an electronic transaction undertaken using an access method via EFTPOS or an ATM, and a transaction undertaken using the Up app.

"EFTPOS" (Electronic Funds Transfer at the Point of Sale) means the system that allows you to make purchases or withdraw cash with your card by presenting it at a merchant's terminal.

"ePayments Code" means the ePayments Code administered by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), as amended from time to time.

"Government charges" means all charges or duties on deposits into, or withdrawals from your account that are payable under a law of the Commonwealth or any State or Territory or any other jurisdiction whether or not you are primarily liable to pay these charges.

"law" means common law, principles of equity and laws made by parliament (including regulations and other instruments under them, and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of them).

"Mastercard SecureCode" means the online authentication service provided for Mastercard cardholders when making online transactions at participating merchants.

"mobile number" means the mobile phone number you have nominated to use on or with the device or devices you use to access the Up app.

"NPP" means the New Payments Platform owned and operated by or for NPP Australia Limited.

"NPP Addressing Service" means the addressing service component of the NPP which facilitates the registration of PayIDs.

"NPP Payment" means a payment processed through the NPP and includes Osko Payments and Basic NPP Payments.

"Osko" means the Osko payment service provided by BPAY Pty Ltd.

"Osko Payment" means a transfer of funds processed using Osko.

"Pay Anyone conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the Pay Anyone Service as set out in Section H of this document.

"PayID" means a PayID (also known as an 'alias') which is able to be created with the NPP Address Service and used for the purpose of making and receiving NPP Payments (for example, an email address or telephone number).

"payment facility" means each of the following:

The Up app (including the Pay Anyone Service and BPAY), but only to the extent that it facilitates payments
Up Debit Mastercard
Automatic payments (direct debits) to an account;

"PIN" means the Personal Identification Number issued by us or selected by you to use in conjunction with a card.

"recovery code" means the code given to you on sign up that you can use to recover your account

"regular payment" means either a recurring payment or an instalment which represents an agreement between a cardholder and a merchant to debit a card at predetermined intervals (e.g. monthly or quarterly) or at intervals as agreed by both parties.

"passcode" means a sequence of alphanumeric or other characters known only by you that are required as one of the access methods for your account and/or to use the Up app.

"Post Office" means Australia Post.

"stepped" means that different rates of interest will apply to different portions of your account balance.

For example:

if the rate of interest is 0.05% per year on that part of the account balance that is less than $2,000 and 1.5% per year. on that part of the account balance that equals or exceeds $2,000; and
your account balance is $3,000 the rate of interest applying to your account will be 0.05% per year on $1,999.99 and 1.5% per year on the remainder.

"Up app" means the software we offer on compatible iOS and Android devices, with which you can transact on and otherwise access a nominated account.

"we", "us" and "our" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL No. 237879.

"you" and "your" means the holder of an account. In relation to a 2Up account, “you” and “your” includes each joint account holder.

The singular refers to the plural and vice versa.

A reference to a document includes any variation or replacement of it.

A reference to anything includes the whole and each part of it.

All examples used in this document are for illustrative purposes only.

Published Saturday, 31 July 2021

In this document the following expressions have the following meanings:

2Up account means a joint account and each joint Up saver we open pursuant to Section K of this document.

"access method" means any method we make available to you to authenticate yourself to us for the purposes of transacting on and otherwise accessing your accounts. An access method comprises of one or more components (including, but not limited to, a card, a PIN, a passcode, recovery code, biometric identification, or any combination of these). It excludes methods involving a user's written signature.

"account" means an Up Everyday Account or an Up Saver Account we establish in your name except in clause 11 where it means any account you have with us (including accounts to which these terms and conditions do not apply).

"ATM" means an automatic teller machine.

"bank" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence No.

"Bank@Post™" means when you make a withdrawal, deposit or balance enquiry at a Bank@Post™ terminal in an Australia Post Office using a Up Bank card where this facility is available. Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

"basic NPP payment" means a transfer of funds processed through the NPP which does not use Osko.

"biometric identification" means the use of supported biometric identification features of your device, including but not limited to Touch ID, Face ID, and other fingerprint and retina scanning technology.

"BPAY conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the BPAY scheme as set out in Section G of this document.

"BPAY payments" means payments which you have instructed us to make through the BPAY scheme to billers who can accept payments made to them through that scheme.

"BPAY scheme" means the 'BPAY Payments' electronic payments scheme operated by BPAY Pty Ltd through which you instruct us to make payments to billers who can accept payments made to them through this scheme.

"business day" means any day on which banks in Melbourne or Sydney are able to effect settlement through the Reserve Bank of Australia.

"card" means a Debit Mastercard issued to you by us, that bears the Mastercard symbol, which is linked to an account and can be used to undertake an EFT transaction.

"contactless terminal" means an electronic point of sale terminal which is capable of performing a contactless transaction.

"contactless transaction" means the authorisation of a transaction by presenting a card (which is capable of performing a contactless transaction) or other device at a contactless terminal without the requirement to insert or swipe the card.

"device" means any electronic device such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer on which the Up app is installed or your Up account can be accessed and used.

"direct debit" means a transaction debited directly to your account by another party, under an arrangement that you and that other party have previously reached.

"direct entry payment" means an electronic transfer of funds processed through the Bulk Electronic Clearing System (BECS) administered by the Australian Payments Clearing Association.

"EFT conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to EFT transactions as set out in Section F.

"EFT transaction" means a payment, funds transfer or cash withdrawal initiated using electronic equipment and not intended to be authenticated by comparing a manual signature with a specimen signature. An EFT transaction includes, without limitation, an electronic transaction undertaken using an access method via EFTPOS or an ATM, and a transaction undertaken using the Up app.

"EFTPOS" (Electronic Funds Transfer at the Point of Sale) means the system that allows you to make purchases or withdraw cash with your card by presenting it at a merchant's terminal.

"ePayments Code" means the ePayments Code administered by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), as amended from time to time.

"Government charges" means all charges or duties on deposits into, or withdrawals from your account that are payable under a law of the Commonwealth or any State or Territory or any other jurisdiction whether or not you are primarily liable to pay these charges.

"law" means common law, principles of equity and laws made by parliament (including regulations and other instruments under them, and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of them).

"Mastercard SecureCode" means the online authentication service provided for Mastercard cardholders when making online transactions at participating merchants.

"mobile number" means the mobile phone number you have nominated to use on or with the device or devices you use to access the Up app.

"NPP" means the New Payments Platform owned and operated by or for NPP Australia Limited.

"NPP Addressing Service" means the addressing service component of the NPP which facilitates the registration of PayIDs.

"NPP Payment" means a payment processed through the NPP and includes Osko Payments and Basic NPP Payments.

"Osko" means the Osko payment service provided by BPAY Pty Ltd.

"Osko Payment" means a transfer of funds processed using Osko.

"Pay Anyone conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the Pay Anyone Service as set out in Section H of this document.

"PayID" means a PayID (also known as an 'alias') which is able to be created with the NPP Address Service and used for the purpose of making and receiving NPP Payments (for example, an email address or telephone number).

"payment facility" means each of the following:

The Up app (including the Pay Anyone Service and BPAY), but only to the extent that it facilitates payments
Up Debit Mastercard
Automatic payments (direct debits) to an account;

"PIN" means the Personal Identification Number issued by us or selected by you to use in conjunction with a card.

"recovery code" means the code given to you on sign up that you can use to recover your account

"regular payment" means either a recurring payment or an instalment which represents an agreement between a cardholder and a merchant to debit a card at predetermined intervals (e.g. monthly or quarterly) or at intervals as agreed by both parties.

"passcode" means a sequence of alphanumeric or other characters known only by you that are required as one of the access methods for your account and/or to use the Up app.

"Post Office" means Australia Post.

"stepped" means that different rates of interest will apply to different portions of your account balance.

For example:

if the rate of interest is 0.05% per year on that part of the account balance that is less than $2,000 and 1.5% per year. on that part of the account balance that equals or exceeds $2,000; and
your account balance is $3,000 the rate of interest applying to your account will be 0.05% per year on $1,999.99 and 1.5% per year on the remainder.

"Up app" means the software we offer on compatible iOS and Android devices, with which you can transact on and otherwise access a nominated account.

"we", "us" and "our" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL No. 237879.

"you" and "your" means the holder of an account. In relation to a 2Up account, “you” and “your” includes each joint account holder.

The singular refers to the plural and vice versa.

A reference to a document includes any variation or replacement of it.

A reference to anything includes the whole and each part of it.

All examples used in this document are for illustrative purposes only.

Published Saturday, 15 May 2021

In this document the following expressions have the following meanings:

2Up account means a joint account we open pursuant to Section K of this document.

"access method" means any method we make available to you to authenticate yourself to us for the purposes of transacting on and otherwise accessing your accounts. An access method comprises of one or more components (including, but not limited to, a card, a PIN, a passcode, recovery code, biometric identification, or any combination of these). It excludes methods involving a user's written signature.

"account" means an Up Everyday Account or an Up Saver Account we establish in your name except in clause 11 where it means any account you have with us (including accounts to which these terms and conditions do not apply).

"ATM" means an automatic teller machine.

"bank" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence No.

"Bank@Post™" means when you make a withdrawal, deposit or balance enquiry at a Bank@Post™ terminal in an Australia Post Office using a Up Bank card where this facility is available. Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

"basic NPP payment" means a transfer of funds processed through the NPP which does not use Osko.

"biometric identification" means the use of supported biometric identification features of your device, including but not limited to Touch ID, Face ID, and other fingerprint and retina scanning technology.

"BPAY conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the BPAY scheme as set out in Section G of this document.

"BPAY payments" means payments which you have instructed us to make through the BPAY scheme to billers who can accept payments made to them through that scheme.

"BPAY scheme" means the 'BPAY Payments' electronic payments scheme operated by BPAY Pty Ltd through which you instruct us to make payments to billers who can accept payments made to them through this scheme.

"business day" means any day on which banks in Melbourne or Sydney are able to effect settlement through the Reserve Bank of Australia.

"card" means a Debit Mastercard issued to you by us, that bears the Mastercard symbol, which is linked to an account and can be used to undertake an EFT transaction.

"contactless terminal" means an electronic point of sale terminal which is capable of performing a contactless transaction.

"contactless transaction" means the authorisation of a transaction by presenting a card (which is capable of performing a contactless transaction) or other device at a contactless terminal without the requirement to insert or swipe the card.

"device" means any electronic device such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer on which the Up app is installed or your Up account can be accessed and used.

"direct debit" means a transaction debited directly to your account by another party, under an arrangement that you and that other party have previously reached.

"direct entry payment" means an electronic transfer of funds processed through the Bulk Electronic Clearing System (BECS) administered by the Australian Payments Clearing Association.

"EFT conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to EFT transactions as set out in Section F.

"EFT transaction" means a payment, funds transfer or cash withdrawal initiated using electronic equipment and not intended to be authenticated by comparing a manual signature with a specimen signature. An EFT transaction includes, without limitation, an electronic transaction undertaken using an access method via EFTPOS or an ATM, and a transaction undertaken using the Up app.

"EFTPOS" (Electronic Funds Transfer at the Point of Sale) means the system that allows you to make purchases or withdraw cash with your card by presenting it at a merchant's terminal.

"ePayments Code" means the ePayments Code administered by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), as amended from time to time.

"Government charges" means all charges or duties on deposits into, or withdrawals from your account that are payable under a law of the Commonwealth or any State or Territory or any other jurisdiction whether or not you are primarily liable to pay these charges.

"law" means common law, principles of equity and laws made by parliament (including regulations and other instruments under them, and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of them).

"Mastercard SecureCode" means the online authentication service provided for Mastercard cardholders when making online transactions at participating merchants.

"mobile number" means the mobile phone number you have nominated to use on or with the device or devices you use to access the Up app.

"NPP" means the New Payments Platform owned and operated by or for NPP Australia Limited.

"NPP Addressing Service" means the addressing service component of the NPP which facilitates the registration of PayIDs.

"NPP Payment" means a payment processed through the NPP and includes Osko Payments and Basic NPP Payments.

"Osko" means the Osko payment service provided by BPAY Pty Ltd.

"Osko Payment" means a transfer of funds processed using Osko.

"Pay Anyone conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the Pay Anyone Service as set out in Section H of this document.

"PayID" means a PayID (also known as an 'alias') which is able to be created with the NPP Address Service and used for the purpose of making and receiving NPP Payments (for example, an email address or telephone number).

"payment facility" means each of the following:

The Up app (including the Pay Anyone Service and BPAY), but only to the extent that it facilitates payments
Up Debit Mastercard
Automatic payments (direct debits) to an account;

"PIN" means the Personal Identification Number issued by us or selected by you to use in conjunction with a card.

"recovery code" means the code given to you on sign up that you can use to recover your account

"regular payment" means either a recurring payment or an instalment which represents an agreement between a cardholder and a merchant to debit a card at predetermined intervals (e.g. monthly or quarterly) or at intervals as agreed by both parties.

"passcode" means a sequence of alphanumeric or other characters known only by you that are required as one of the access methods for your account and/or to use the Up app.

"Post Office" means Australia Post.

"stepped" means that different rates of interest will apply to different portions of your account balance.

For example:

if the rate of interest is 0.05% per year on that part of the account balance that is less than $2,000 and 1.5% per year. on that part of the account balance that equals or exceeds $2,000; and
your account balance is $3,000 the rate of interest applying to your account will be 0.05% per year on $1,999.99 and 1.5% per year on the remainder.

"Up app" means the software we offer on compatible iOS and Android devices, with which you can transact on and otherwise access a nominated account.

"we", "us" and "our" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL No. 237879.

"you" and "your" means the holder of an account. In relation to a 2Up account, “you” and “your” includes each joint account holder.

The singular refers to the plural and vice versa.

A reference to a document includes any variation or replacement of it.

A reference to anything includes the whole and each part of it.

All examples used in this document are for illustrative purposes only.

Published Tuesday, 31 March 2020

In this document the following expressions have the following meanings:

"access method" means any method we make available to you to authenticate yourself to us for the purposes of transacting on and otherwise accessing your accounts. An access method comprises of one or more components (including, but not limited to, a card, a PIN, a passcode, recovery code, biometric identification, or any combination of these). It excludes methods involving a user's written signature.

"account" means an Up Everyday Account or an Up Saver Account we establish in your name except in clause 11 where it means any account you have with us (including accounts to which these terms and conditions do not apply).

"ATM" means an automatic teller machine.

"bank" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence No.

"Bank@Post™" means when you make a withdrawal, deposit or balance enquiry at a Bank@Post™ terminal in an Australia Post Office using a Up Bank card where this facility is available. Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australia Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

"basic NPP payment" means a transfer of funds processed through the NPP which does not use Osko.

"biometric identification" means the use of supported biometric identification features of your device, including but not limited to Touch ID, Face ID, and other fingerprint and retina scanning technology.

"BPAY conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the BPAY scheme as set out in Section G of this document.

"BPAY payments" means payments which you have instructed us to make through the BPAY scheme to billers who can accept payments made to them through that scheme.

"BPAY scheme" means the 'BPAY Payments' electronic payments scheme operated by BPAY Pty Ltd through which you instruct us to make payments to billers who can accept payments made to them through this scheme.

"business day" means any day on which banks in Melbourne or Sydney are able to effect settlement through the Reserve Bank of Australia.

"card" means a Debit Mastercard issued to you by us, that bears the Mastercard symbol, which is linked to an account and can be used to undertake an EFT transaction.

"contactless terminal" means an electronic point of sale terminal which is capable of performing a contactless transaction.

"contactless transaction" means the authorisation of a transaction by presenting a card (which is capable of performing a contactless transaction) or other device at a contactless terminal without the requirement to insert or swipe the card.

"device" means any electronic device such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer on which the Up app is installed or your Up account can be accessed and used.

"direct debit" means a transaction debited directly to your account by another party, under an arrangement that you and that other party have previously reached.

"direct entry payment" means an electronic transfer of funds processed through the Bulk Electronic Clearing System (BECS) administered by the Australian Payments Clearing Association.

"EFT conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to EFT transactions as set out in Section F.

"EFT transaction" means a payment, funds transfer or cash withdrawal initiated using electronic equipment and not intended to be authenticated by comparing a manual signature with a specimen signature. An EFT transaction includes, without limitation, an electronic transaction undertaken using an access method via EFTPOS or an ATM, and a transaction undertaken using the Up app.

"EFTPOS" (Electronic Funds Transfer at the Point of Sale) means the system that allows you to make purchases or withdraw cash with your card by presenting it at a merchant's terminal.

"ePayments Code" means the ePayments Code administered by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), as amended from time to time.

"Government charges" means all charges or duties on deposits into, or withdrawals from your account that are payable under a law of the Commonwealth or any State or Territory or any other jurisdiction whether or not you are primarily liable to pay these charges.

"law" means common law, principles of equity and laws made by parliament (including regulations and other instruments under them, and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of them).

"Mastercard SecureCode" means the online authentication service provided for Mastercard cardholders when making online transactions at participating merchants.

"mobile number" means the mobile phone number you have nominated to use on or with the device or devices you use to access the Up app.

"NPP" means the New Payments Platform owned and operated by or for NPP Australia Limited.

"NPP Addressing Service" means the addressing service component of the NPP which facilitates the registration of PayIDs.

"NPP Payment" means a payment processed through the NPP and includes Osko Payments and Basic NPP Payments.

"Osko" means the Osko payment service provided by BPAY Pty Ltd.

"Osko Payment" means a transfer of funds processed using Osko.

"Pay Anyone conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the Pay Anyone Service as set out in Section H of this document.

"PayID" means a PayID (also known as an 'alias') which is able to be created with the NPP Address Service and used for the purpose of making and receiving NPP Payments (for example, an email address or telephone number).

"payment facility" means each of the following:

The Up app (including the Pay Anyone Service and BPAY), but only to the extent that it facilitates payments
Up Debit Mastercard
Automatic payments (direct debits) to an account;

"PIN" means the Personal Identification Number issued by us or selected by you to use in conjunction with a card.

"recovery code" means the code given to you on sign up that you can use to recover your account

"regular payment" means either a recurring payment or an instalment which represents an agreement between a cardholder and a merchant to debit a card at predetermined intervals (e.g. monthly or quarterly) or at intervals as agreed by both parties.

"passcode" means a sequence of alphanumeric or other characters known only by you that are required as one of the access methods for your account and/or to use the Up app.

"Post Office" means Australia Post.

"stepped" means that different rates of interest will apply to different portions of your account balance.

For example:

if the rate of interest is 0.05% per year on that part of the account balance that is less than $2,000 and 1.5% per year. on that part of the account balance that equals or exceeds $2,000; and
your account balance is $3,000 the rate of interest applying to your account will be 0.05% per year on $1,999.99 and 1.5% per year on the remainder.

"Up app" means the software we offer on compatible iOS and Android devices, with which you can transact on and otherwise access a nominated account.

"we", "us" and "our" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL No. 237879.

"you" and "your" means the holder of an account.

The singular refers to the plural and vice versa.

A reference to a document includes any variation or replacement of it.

A reference to anything includes the whole and each part of it.

All examples used in this document are for illustrative purposes only.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

In this document the following expressions have the following meanings:

"access method" means any method we make available to you to authenticate yourself to us for the purposes of transacting on and otherwise accessing your accounts. An access method comprises of one or more components (including, but not limited to, a card, a PIN, a passcode, recovery code, biometric identification, or any combination of these). It excludes methods involving a user's written signature.

"account" means an Up Everyday Account or an Up Saver Account we establish in your name except in clause 11 where it means any account you have with us (including accounts to which these terms and conditions do not apply).

"ATM" means an automatic teller machine.

"bank" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence No.

"basic NPP payment" means a transfer of funds processed through the NPP which does not use Osko.

"biometric identification" means the use of supported biometric identification features of your device, including but not limited to Touch ID, Face ID, and other fingerprint and retina scanning technology.

"BPAY conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the BPAY scheme as set out in Section G of this document.

"BPAY payments" means payments which you have instructed us to make through the BPAY scheme to billers who can accept payments made to them through that scheme.

"BPAY scheme" means the 'BPAY Payments' electronic payments scheme operated by BPAY Pty Ltd through which you instruct us to make payments to billers who can accept payments made to them through this scheme.

"business day" means any day on which banks in Melbourne or Sydney are able to effect settlement through the Reserve Bank of Australia.

"card" means a Debit Mastercard issued to you by us, that bears the Mastercard symbol, which is linked to an account and can be used to undertake an EFT transaction.

"contactless terminal" means an electronic point of sale terminal which is capable of performing a contactless transaction.

"contactless transaction" means the authorisation of a transaction by presenting a card (which is capable of performing a contactless transaction) or other device at a contactless terminal without the requirement to insert or swipe the card.

"device" means any electronic device such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer on which the Up app is installed or your Up account can be accessed and used.

"direct debit" means a transaction debited directly to your account by another party, under an arrangement that you and that other party have previously reached.

"direct entry payment" means an electronic transfer of funds processed through the Bulk Electronic Clearing System (BECS) administered by the Australian Payments Clearing Association.

"EFT conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to EFT transactions as set out in Section F.

"EFT transaction" means a payment, funds transfer or cash withdrawal initiated using electronic equipment and not intended to be authenticated by comparing a manual signature with a specimen signature. An EFT transaction includes, without limitation, an electronic transaction undertaken using an access method via EFTPOS or an ATM, and a transaction undertaken using the Up app.

"EFTPOS" (Electronic Funds Transfer at the Point of Sale) means the system that allows you to make purchases or withdraw cash with your card by presenting it at a merchant's terminal.

"ePayments Code" means the ePayments Code administered by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC), as amended from time to time.

"Government charges" means all charges or duties on deposits into, or withdrawals from your account that are payable under a law of the Commonwealth or any State or Territory or any other jurisdiction whether or not you are primarily liable to pay these charges.

"law" means common law, principles of equity and laws made by parliament (including regulations and other instruments under them, and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of them).

"Mastercard SecureCode" means the online authentication service provided for Mastercard cardholders when making online transactions at participating merchants.

"mobile number" means the mobile phone number you have nominated to use on or with the device or devices you use to access the Up app.

"NPP" means the New Payments Platform owned and operated by or for NPP Australia Limited.

"NPP Addressing Service" means the addressing service component of the NPP which facilitates the registration of PayIDs.

"NPP Payment" means a payment processed through the NPP and includes Osko Payments and Basic NPP Payments.

"Osko" means the Osko payment service provided by BPAY Pty Ltd.

"Osko Payment" means a transfer of funds processed using Osko.

"Pay Anyone conditions" means the terms and conditions applying to the Pay Anyone Service as set out in Section H of this document.

"PayID" means a PayID (also known as an 'alias') which is able to be created with the NPP Address Service and used for the purpose of making and receiving NPP Payments (for example, an email address or telephone number).

"payment facility" means each of the following:

The Up app (including the Pay Anyone Service and BPAY), but only to the extent that it facilitates payments
Up Debit Mastercard
Automatic payments (direct debits) to an account;

"PIN" means the Personal Identification Number issued by us or selected by you to use in conjunction with a card.

"recovery code" means the code given to you on sign up that you can use to recover your account

"regular payment" means either a recurring payment or an instalment which represents an agreement between a cardholder and a merchant to debit a card at predetermined intervals (e.g. monthly or quarterly) or at intervals as agreed by both parties.

"passcode" means a sequence of alphanumeric or other characters known only by you that are required as one of the access methods for your account and/or to use the Up app.

"stepped" means that different rates of interest will apply to different portions of your account balance.

For example:

if the rate of interest is 0.05% per year on that part of the account balance that is less than $2,000 and 1.5% per year. on that part of the account balance that equals or exceeds $2,000; and
your account balance is $3,000 the rate of interest applying to your account will be 0.05% per year on $1,999.99 and 1.5% per year on the remainder.

"Up app" means the software we offer on compatible iOS and Android devices, with which you can transact on and otherwise access a nominated account.

"we", "us" and "our" means Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL No. 237879.

"you" and "your" means the holder of an account.

The singular refers to the plural and vice versa.

A reference to a document includes any variation or replacement of it.

A reference to anything includes the whole and each part of it.

All examples used in this document are for illustrative purposes only.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-b_.txt ===

Section B: General terms and conditions

Current and historical versions of the Section B: General terms and conditions section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 5 December 2024
Monday, 30 September 2024
Friday, 26 April 2024
Tuesday, 16 April 2024
Thursday, 9 November 2023
Tuesday, 19 July 2022
Saturday, 31 July 2021
Monday, 10 August 2020
Friday, 27 March 2020
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 5 December 2024

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, acting reasonably, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. Acting reasonably, we may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the Up app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. Acting reasonably, we can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account. However, we will not pay you interest on the credit balance of any account while:

we are treating it as an offset account in relation to a loan account (even if the credit balance of the account exceeds the debit balance of the loan account); or

you have told us that you do not want to receive interest in the Up App.

8.2. You can find the current interest rates for your account and any relevant qualification criteria at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au. If our website indicates that eligibility or qualification criteria applies for an interest rate (including any bonus rate) we will pay interest at that rate as stated on our website if you meet the relevant eligibility or qualification criteria.

8.3. We calculate interest by applying the applicable daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The applicable daily percentage rate is the relevant applicable interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.4 Interest is credited to your account monthly on the first day of each calendar month (for interest accrued in the previous calendar month). However, if you satisfy the eligibility or qualification criteria for an interest rate after we have commenced our end of month processing on the last day of the month (approximately 7pm AEST/AEDT), the crediting of interest to your account for that month at that rate may be delayed by a full calendar month and we will only pay that interest to you if you keep your account open until it has been credited.

8.5 We may change the interest rate(s) and any relevant eligibility or qualification criteria from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.6 If you have opted out of earning interest before 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, you will not earn interest on any of your Up Saver or 2Up Saver accounts (as applicable) for any day in that month and any day after that. If you opt out after 7pm on the last day of the month, you may still earn interest for that month

After you opt out of earning interest on your Up Saver or 2Up Saver accounts, you can opt back in at any time. If you opt back in before 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, you may earn interest for that month in accordance with these terms and conditions. If you opt back in after 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, no interest will be earned for any day in that month and you may earn interest starting the next month in accordance with the terms and conditions.

Any joint account holder can opt out or opt in of earning interest if you have a 2Up account.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you. However, we do not exclude liability for loss or damage to the extent it was incurred due to the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents, or a receiver appointed by us.

9.4 If we determine, acting reasonably, that a payment or credit to an account was an error, made by mistake (for example, where the sender entered or selected the account details by mistake) or was made in connection with fraud or a scam (including where the funds are the proceeds of fraud or a scam payment) we may return the amount to the sender or the person to whom we reasonably believe is legally entitled to the funds and debit the account. If we do, your and our rights and obligations will be the same as if the payment or credit was never made and we may make adjustments to the account to reflect this. If the payment is a mistaken internet payment we will act consistently with any other parts of these terms and conditions that deal with mistaken internet payments and the ePayments Code (where it applies).

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our right to make these changes is subject to the conditions in clause 18. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by the National Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may cancel a payment facility at any time if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account;
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened; or
it is reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or it is to benefit you.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the Up app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions, we may close the account without giving you prior notice.

Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include:

Behaviour that is defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person.
Behaviour that promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person.
We believe that your banking conduct poses a regulatory risk or is beyond our risk appetite.
We have reason to believe that the account is being operated fraudulently.
We have reason to believe that you have attempted to deceive Up, either knowingly or unknowingly.
We have reason to believe that you have allowed another person to use Up on your device or to impersonate you in Up.
We have reason to believe that your account is being used for business purposes.
Your account is opened with a zero balance, and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening.

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. Acting reasonably, we may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We can only make changes to the extent reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or to benefit you, including:

changes because of changes to our cost of funds or other costs of doing business or to ensure that we receive an adequate return on assets;
changes because of requirements of laws or industry codes of practice, prudential standards, court decisions, decisions of our dispute resolution scheme, guidance or directions from regulators, and similar reasons;
changes due to changes in the way we operate our business or our systems;
changes we think are necessary to fix errors or to make things clearer;
changes for information security or similar purposes;
changes to reflect market practice or standards or to keep our products competitive and meeting customer expectations and needs; or
changes made for other good reasons.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. We may use the certificate as evidence of the matter, unless it is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

27.14. We may only exercise our rights under a term in these terms and conditions to the extent (if any) reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests. This clause applies to a term in these terms and conditions, despite any other term, if it:

is subject to unfair contract terms legislation; and
is to our advantage; and
causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of you and us under these terms and conditions; and
would cause detriment to you if we applied the term or relied on the term.

Words used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the unfair contract terms legislation.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.15. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Monday, 30 September 2024

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, acting reasonably, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. Acting reasonably, we may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the Up app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. Acting reasonably, we can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account. However, we will not pay you interest on the credit balance of any account while:

we are treating it as an offset account in relation to a loan account (even if the credit balance of the account exceeds the debit balance of the loan account); or

you have told us that you do not want to receive interest in the Up App.

8.2. You can find the current interest rates for your account and any relevant qualification criteria at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au. If our website indicates that eligibility or qualification criteria applies for an interest rate (including any bonus rate) we will pay interest at that rate as stated on our website if you meet the relevant eligibility or qualification criteria.

8.3. We calculate interest by applying the applicable daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The applicable daily percentage rate is the relevant applicable interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.4 Interest is credited to your account monthly on the first day of each calendar month (for interest accrued in the previous calendar month). However, if you satisfy the eligibility or qualification criteria for an interest rate after we have commenced our end of month processing on the last day of the month (approximately 7pm AEST/AEDT), the crediting of interest to your account for that month at that rate may be delayed by a full calendar month and we will only pay that interest to you if you keep your account open until it has been credited.

8.5 We may change the interest rate(s) and any relevant eligibility or qualification criteria from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.6 If you have opted out of earning interest before 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, you will not earn interest on any of your Up Saver or 2Up Saver accounts (as applicable) for any day in that month and any day after that. If you opt out after 7pm on the last day of the month, you may still earn interest for that month

After you opt out of earning interest on your Up Saver or 2Up Saver accounts, you can opt back in at any time. If you opt back in before 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, you may earn interest for that month in accordance with these terms and conditions. If you opt back in after 7pm AEST/AEDT on the last day of the month, no interest will be earned for any day in that month and you may earn interest starting the next month in accordance with the terms and conditions.

Any joint account holder can opt out or opt in of earning interest if you have a 2Up account.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you. However, we do not exclude liability for loss or damage to the extent it was incurred due to the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents, or a receiver appointed by us.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our right to make these changes is subject to the conditions in clause 18. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by the National Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may cancel a payment facility at any time if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account;
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened; or
it is reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or it is to benefit you.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the Up app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions, we may close the account without giving you prior notice.

Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include:

Behaviour that is defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person.
Behaviour that promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person.
We believe that your banking conduct poses a regulatory risk or is beyond our risk appetite.
We have reason to believe that the account is being operated fraudulently.
We have reason to believe that you have attempted to deceive Up, either knowingly or unknowingly.
We have reason to believe that you have allowed another person to use Up on your device or to impersonate you in Up.
We have reason to believe that your account is being used for business purposes.
Your account is opened with a zero balance, and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening.

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. Acting reasonably, we may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We can only make changes to the extent reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or to benefit you, including:

changes because of changes to our cost of funds or other costs of doing business or to ensure that we receive an adequate return on assets;
changes because of requirements of laws or industry codes of practice, prudential standards, court decisions, decisions of our dispute resolution scheme, guidance or directions from regulators, and similar reasons;
changes due to changes in the way we operate our business or our systems;
changes we think are necessary to fix errors or to make things clearer;
changes for information security or similar purposes;
changes to reflect market practice or standards or to keep our products competitive and meeting customer expectations and needs; or
changes made for other good reasons.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. We may use the certificate as evidence of the matter, unless it is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

27.14. We may only exercise our rights under a term in these terms and conditions to the extent (if any) reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests. This clause applies to a term in these terms and conditions, despite any other term, if it:

is subject to unfair contract terms legislation; and
is to our advantage; and
causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of you and us under these terms and conditions; and
would cause detriment to you if we applied the term or relied on the term.

Words used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the unfair contract terms legislation.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.15. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Friday, 26 April 2024

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, acting reasonably, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. Acting reasonably, we may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the Up app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. Acting reasonably, we can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account. However, we will not pay you interest on the credit balance of any account while we are treating it as an offset account in relation to a loan account (even if the credit balance of the account exceeds the debit balance of the loan account).

8.2. You can find the current interest rates for your account and any relevant qualification criteria at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au. If our website indicates that eligibility or qualification criteria applies for an interest rate (including any bonus rate) we will pay interest at that rate as stated on our website if you meet the relevant eligibility or qualification criteria.

8.3. We calculate interest by applying the applicable daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The applicable daily percentage rate is the relevant applicable interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.4 Interest is credited to your account monthly on the first day of each calendar month (for interest accrued in the previous calendar month). However, if you satisfy the eligibility or qualification criteria for an interest rate after we have commenced our end of month processing on the last day of the month (approximately 7pm AEST/AEDT), the crediting of interest to your account for that month at that rate may be delayed by a full calendar month and we will only pay that interest to you if you keep your the account open until it has been credited

8.5 We may change the interest rate(s) and any relevant eligibility or qualification criteria from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you. However, we do not exclude liability for loss or damage to the extent it was incurred due to the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents, or a receiver appointed by us.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our right to make these changes is subject to the conditions in clause 18. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by the National Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may cancel a payment facility at any time if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account;
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened; or
it is reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or it is to benefit you.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the Up app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions, we may close the account without giving you prior notice.

Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include:

Behaviour that is defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person.
Behaviour that promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person.
We believe that your banking conduct poses a regulatory risk or is beyond our risk appetite.
We have reason to believe that the account is being operated fraudulently.
We have reason to believe that you have attempted to deceive Up, either knowingly or unknowingly.
We have reason to believe that you have allowed another person to use Up on your device or to impersonate you in Up.
We have reason to believe that your account is being used for business purposes.
Your account is opened with a zero balance, and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening.

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. Acting reasonably, we may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We can only make changes to the extent reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or to benefit you, including:

changes because of changes to our cost of funds or other costs of doing business or to ensure that we receive an adequate return on assets;
changes because of requirements of laws or industry codes of practice, prudential standards, court decisions, decisions of our dispute resolution scheme, guidance or directions from regulators, and similar reasons;
changes due to changes in the way we operate our business or our systems;
changes we think are necessary to fix errors or to make things clearer;
changes for information security or similar purposes;
changes to reflect market practice or standards or to keep our products competitive and meeting customer expectations and needs; or
changes made for other good reasons.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. We may use the certificate as evidence of the matter, unless it is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

27.14. We may only exercise our rights under a term in these terms and conditions to the extent (if any) reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests. This clause applies to a term in these terms and conditions, despite any other term, if it:

is subject to unfair contract terms legislation; and
is to our advantage; and
causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of you and us under these terms and conditions; and
would cause detriment to you if we applied the term or relied on the term.

Words used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the unfair contract terms legislation.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.15. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Tuesday, 16 April 2024

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, acting reasonably, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. Acting reasonably, we may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the Up app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. Acting reasonably, we can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account. However, we will not pay you interest on the credit balance of any account while we are treating it as an offset account in relation to a loan account (even if the credit balance of the account exceeds the debit balance of the loan account).

8.2. We may change the interest rate from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.3. You can find the current interest rates for your account at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au.

8.4. We calculate interest by applying the daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The daily percentage rate is the relevant interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.5. The type of account you have will determine when interest is credited to your account. The Key Features Table sets out when interest is credited.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you. However, we do not exclude liability for loss or damage to the extent it was incurred due to the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents, or a receiver appointed by us.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our right to make these changes is subject to the conditions in clause 18. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by the National Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may cancel a payment facility at any time if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account;
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened; or
it is reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or it is to benefit you.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the Up app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions, we may close the account without giving you prior notice.

Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include:

Behaviour that is defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person.
Behaviour that promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person.
We believe that your banking conduct poses a regulatory risk or is beyond our risk appetite.
We have reason to believe that the account is being operated fraudulently.
We have reason to believe that you have attempted to deceive Up, either knowingly or unknowingly.
We have reason to believe that you have allowed another person to use Up on your device or to impersonate you in Up.
We have reason to believe that your account is being used for business purposes.
Your account is opened with a zero balance, and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening.

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. Acting reasonably, we may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We can only make changes to the extent reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or to benefit you, including:

changes because of changes to our cost of funds or other costs of doing business or to ensure that we receive an adequate return on assets;
changes because of requirements of laws or industry codes of practice, prudential standards, court decisions, decisions of our dispute resolution scheme, guidance or directions from regulators, and similar reasons;
changes due to changes in the way we operate our business or our systems;
changes we think are necessary to fix errors or to make things clearer;
changes for information security or similar purposes;
changes to reflect market practice or standards or to keep our products competitive and meeting customer expectations and needs; or
changes made for other good reasons.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. We may use the certificate as evidence of the matter, unless it is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

27.14. We may only exercise our rights under a term in these terms and conditions to the extent (if any) reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests. This clause applies to a term in these terms and conditions, despite any other term, if it:

is subject to unfair contract terms legislation; and
is to our advantage; and
causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of you and us under these terms and conditions; and
would cause detriment to you if we applied the term or relied on the term.

Words used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the unfair contract terms legislation.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.15. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, acting reasonably, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. Acting reasonably, we may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the Up app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. Acting reasonably, we can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account. However, we will not pay you interest on the credit balance of any account while we are treating it as an offset account in relation to a loan account (even if the credit balance of the account exceeds the debit balance of the loan account).

8.2. We may change the interest rate from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.3. You can find the current interest rates for your account at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au.

8.4. We calculate interest by applying the daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The daily percentage rate is the relevant interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.5. The type of account you have will determine when interest is credited to your account. The Key Features Table sets out when interest is credited.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you. However, we do not exclude liability for loss or damage to the extent it was incurred due to the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents, or a receiver appointed by us.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our right to make these changes is subject to the conditions in clause 18. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by the National Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may cancel a payment facility at any time if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account;
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened; or
it is reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or it is to benefit you.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the Up app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions or your account is opened with a zero balance and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you prior notice. Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include behaviour that is:

Defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person
Promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. Acting reasonably, we may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We can only make changes to the extent reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests, or to benefit you, including:

changes because of changes to our cost of funds or other costs of doing business or to ensure that we receive an adequate return on assets;
changes because of requirements of laws or industry codes of practice, prudential standards, court decisions, decisions of our dispute resolution scheme, guidance or directions from regulators, and similar reasons;
changes due to changes in the way we operate our business or our systems;
changes we think are necessary to fix errors or to make things clearer;
changes for information security or similar purposes;
changes to reflect market practice or standards or to keep our products competitive and meeting customer expectations and needs; or
changes made for other good reasons.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. We may use the certificate as evidence of the matter, unless it is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

27.14. We may only exercise our rights under a term in these terms and conditions to the extent (if any) reasonably necessary to protect our legitimate interests. This clause applies to a term in these terms and conditions, despite any other term, if it:

is subject to unfair contract terms legislation; and
is to our advantage; and
causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of you and us under these terms and conditions; and
would cause detriment to you if we applied the term or relied on the term.

Words used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the unfair contract terms legislation.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.15. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Tuesday, 19 July 2022

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. We may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings and indemnify us against any potential losses either you or we suffer arising from any breach by you of such undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the Up app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. We can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account. However, we will not pay you interest on the credit balance of any account while we are treating it as an offset account in relation to a loan account (even if the credit balance of the account exceeds the debit balance of the loan account).

8.2. We may change the interest rate from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.3. You can find the current interest rates for your account at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au.

8.4. We calculate interest by applying the daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The daily percentage rate is the relevant interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.5. The type of account you have will determine when interest is credited to your account. The Key Features Table sets out when interest is credited.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting, declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
your account may incur an Overdrawn Account Fee as per the fees and charges set out in this document;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by a Consumer Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may at our absolute discretion cancel a payment facility at any time without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances in which we may do so, we may cancel a payment facility if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account; or
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the p transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the Up app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions or your account is opened with a zero balance and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you prior notice. Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include behaviour that is:

Defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person
Promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. We may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. We are not liable for any loss or damage arising from placing a stop on your account.

15.10. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at our absolute discretion at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.
27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. The certificate is sufficient proof of the matter, unless you prove the certificate is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.14. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Saturday, 31 July 2021

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. We may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings and indemnify us against any potential losses either you or we suffer arising from any breach by you of such undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the UP app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. We can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from your account at a branch, from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal.

Cash out limit: Our current maximum daily cash out default limit for transactions conducted at an ATM or EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is $1000. This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval.

Purchase limit: Our current maximum daily purchase limit for transactions conducted at an EFTPOS terminal and using a PIN is the available balance of your account.

We may vary the default amount of these limits or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed. For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account.

8.2. We may change the interest rate from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.3. You can find the current interest rates for your account at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au.

8.4. We calculate interest by applying the daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The daily percentage rate is the relevant interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.5. The type of account you have will determine when interest is credited to your account. The Key Features Table sets out when interest is credited.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting, declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
your account may incur an Overdrawn Account Fee as per the fees and charges set out in this document;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by a Consumer Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may at our absolute discretion cancel a payment facility at any time without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances in which we may do so, we may cancel a payment facility if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account; or
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the p transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the UP app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions or your account is opened with a zero balance and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you prior notice. Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include behaviour that is:

Defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person
Promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. We may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. We are not liable for any loss or damage arising from placing a stop on your account.

15.10. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at our absolute discretion at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise a complaint by contacting us using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 30 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.
27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. The certificate is sufficient proof of the matter, unless you prove the certificate is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.14. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Monday, 10 August 2020

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. We may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings and indemnify us against any potential losses either you or we suffer arising from any breach by you of such undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the UP app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. We can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal. Our current default for maximum daily withdrawal limit for transactions conducted using a PIN in conjunction with a card is $1000 (for CHQ/SAV purchases). This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval. We may vary the default amount of this limit or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed.

For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account.

8.2. We may change the interest rate from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.3. You can find the current interest rates for your account at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au.

8.4. We calculate interest by applying the daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The daily percentage rate is the relevant interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.5. The type of account you have will determine when interest is credited to your account. The Key Features Table sets out when interest is credited.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting, declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
your account may incur an Overdrawn Account Fee as per the fees and charges set out in this document;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by a Consumer Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may at our absolute discretion cancel a payment facility at any time without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances in which we may do so, we may cancel a payment facility if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account; or
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the p transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the UP app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions or your account is opened with a zero balance and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you prior notice. Examples of unsatisfactory conduct include behaviour that is:

Defamatory, harassing, threatening to any person
Promotes or encourages physical or mental harm of any person

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. We may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. We are not liable for any loss or damage arising from placing a stop on your account.

15.10. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at our absolute discretion at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise your complaint with us by contacting using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you have the option of referring the matter to our Customer Advocate who will impartially assess your complaint, keep you informed of the progress and provide you with a response. You can contact the Customer Advocate via:

telephone - 1300 139 572 (+61 3 5485 7919) between 8.30am and 5pm (AEST/AEDT), weekdays.
email - customeradvocate@bendigoadelaide.com.au
post -- write to Customer Advocate, P.O. Box 480, Bendigo, VIC 3552

21.3. Alternatively (or following consideration by the Customer Advocate) you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 45 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.
25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.
27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. The certificate is sufficient proof of the matter, unless you prove the certificate is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.14. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Friday, 27 March 2020

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. We may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings and indemnify us against any potential losses either you or we suffer arising from any breach by you of such undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.
At any Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5);

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. It will usually take three business days for a cheque to clear. If we allow you to draw on a cheque before it has cleared, you will be liable for the amount of the cheque if it is subsequently dishonoured and you authorise us to debit the amount of the cheque plus applicable bank charges to your account. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. We will not accept any cheque that is not payable to you whether the cheque has been endorsed in your favour or not.

Bank@Post™ and its device mark are trademarks (registered or otherwise) of Australian Postal Corporation. All rights reserved.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
at a Post Office using Bank@Post™ (where available and subject to restrictions, see clause 29.5)
by transferring funds electronically in the UP app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. We can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal. Our current default for maximum daily withdrawal limit for transactions conducted using a PIN in conjunction with a card is $1000 (for CHQ/SAV purchases). This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval. We may vary the default amount of this limit or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed.

For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions (including the Post Office) may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account.

8.2. We may change the interest rate from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.3. You can find the current interest rates for your account at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au.

8.4. We calculate interest by applying the daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The daily percentage rate is the relevant interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.5. The type of account you have will determine when interest is credited to your account. The Key Features Table sets out when interest is credited.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error or because a cheque is dishonoured. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting, declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
your account may incur an Overdrawn Account Fee as per the fees and charges set out in this document;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by a Consumer Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may at our absolute discretion cancel a payment facility at any time without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances in which we may do so, we may cancel a payment facility if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account; or
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the p transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the UP app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions or your account is opened with a zero balance and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you prior notice.

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. We may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. We are not liable for any loss or damage arising from placing a stop on your account.

15.10. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at our absolute discretion at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change.	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges.	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated.
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited.
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply.	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions.	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment.	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above). Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law. Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you).	No later than the day on which the change takes effect.
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise your complaint with us by contacting using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you have the option of referring the matter to our Customer Advocate who will impartially assess your complaint, keep you informed of the progress and provide you with a response. You can contact the Customer Advocate via:

telephone - 1300 139 572 (+61 3 5485 7919) between 8.30am and 5pm (AEST/AEDT), weekdays.
email - customeradvocate@bendigoadelaide.com.au
post -- write to Customer Advocate, P.O. Box 480, Bendigo, VIC 3552

21.3. Alternatively (or following consideration by the Customer Advocate) you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 45 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.

24.2. The Australian Government has given notice that it is reviewing the application of the Financial Claims Scheme to accounts held by non-residents of Australia. This may result in the Financial Claims Scheme no longer applying to accounts held with us by overseas customers.

25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.
27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. The certificate is sufficient proof of the matter, unless you prove the certificate is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.14. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

Unless you have previously agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions, your first use of any account or payment facility indicates that you understand and agree to be bound by these terms and conditions.

1. Opening and holding an account

1.1. You must provide us with any information we reasonably require to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, we may refuse to open an account or provide a payment facility.

1.3. You may not be eligible to open and hold all types of accounts. The Key Features Table sets out eligibility requirements that apply.

1.4. None of the accounts to which this document applies are available for use by a business or for business purposes.

1.5. We may require you at any time to provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements for an account. If:

after opening an account you no longer meet the eligibility requirements; or
you do not provide us with proof that you meet the eligibility requirements when we ask for it,

we may change your account to another type of account to which this document applies.

1.6. We may require you to deposit a minimum amount with us in order to open an account. The minimum amounts that currently apply are set out in the Key Features Table.

1.7. There is no minimum account balance required to maintain an account. However, where an account has been opened without you depositing any amount (that is, with a zero balance) and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you notice.

2. Identification

2.1. We require identification information for all relevant parties as required by law. This will include information such as name, residential address and date of birth. We may also require other information such as information about your activities and reason for opening an account in Australia.

3. Verification

3.1. We may, and you consent to us doing so, seek verification of your identification and identification documents from independent sources and/or third party service providers.

3.2. We will keep copies of all documents provided by you and will disclose or provide copies of your identification documents to third party bodies as required by law.

3.3. We may request, and you must provide, further documentary evidence of your identity as we deem necessary to confirm your identity.

3.4. We may request that you produce, and you must provide in person if necessary, the original and/or certified true copies of all documentary evidence confirming your identity.

4. Inability to confirm identity

4.1. In the event that we are unable to properly confirm your identity, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as your identity can be confirmed.

5. Additional Information and use of account

5.1. We may request, and you must provide, any other additional information we deem necessary in relation to your identity, personal affairs, business dealings and/or the purpose of your relationship with us. In the event you refuse or fail to provide us with information we have reasonably requested, we may at our sole discretion, reject your application, suspend the operation of your account, refuse transactions and/or place a freeze on your funds until such time as the information is provided.

5.2. You provide us with the following undertakings and indemnify us against any potential losses either you or we suffer arising from any breach by you of such undertakings:

you will not initiate, engage in or effect a transaction that may be in breach of Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country); and
the underlying activity/product for which the Up app is being provided does not breach any Australian law or sanctions (or the law or sanctions of any other country).
6. Payment Facilities

6.1. Depending on the type of account you hold with us, you may be able to gain access to one or more payment facilities. The payment facilities that are currently available with each type of account are set out in the Key Features Table.

7. Deposits and Withdrawals
Deposits

7.1. You may make deposits to your account by:

arranging an automatic deposit of your salary or other income or amounts to be paid directly into your account using the BSB and account number for your account; or
transferring funds electronically into your account from another financial institution account using the BSB and account number for your account.

Some of the above methods for deposits may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.2. The proceeds of a deposit may not be available for up to 5 business days after the deposit is made. International deposits may be subject to extended clearance times.

7.3. You cannot deposit cash (physical currency), cheques or mail orders into your account.

Withdrawals

7.4. You may make withdrawals from your account in the following ways:

if your account is linked to a card, using the card (including in a digital wallet):
at an ATM;
via EFTPOS terminals;
by transferring funds electronically in the UP app using Pay Anyone or BPAY
using an Automatic Payment.

You cannot make cash or other withdrawals from your account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Also, some of the above methods for withdrawals may not be accessible by you when you are outside of Australia.

7.5. We can at our discretion impose a limit on the amount you can withdraw in cash from an ATM or via an EFTPOS terminal. Our current default for maximum daily withdrawal limit for transactions conducted using a PIN in conjunction with a card is $1000 (for CHQ/SAV purchases). This amount may be varied for customers upon application and approval. We may vary the default amount of this limit or any other limit we impose from time to time. We may also limit the way in which money is dispensed.

For example, if you want to withdraw $400 (and that amount is not in excess of the maximum daily withdrawal limit), the ATM may not pay out on that amount in one transaction. You may receive $300 and then make another withdrawal of $100 as a separate transaction.

7.6. You should ensure that the purchase amount is correct on any electronic equipment you use when you perform a transaction.

7.7. EFTPOS merchants may have other restrictions on the amount of cash that can be withdrawn. Merchants or other institutions may also impose additional restrictions on the use of your card or PIN.

7.8. We may decline a withdrawal if we do not have proof of your identity that is satisfactory to us.

7.9. You authorise us to debit to your account with all withdrawals you make from that account.

7.10. Contactless transactions are subject to separate transaction limits. These limits are imposed by us and the financial institution responsible for the EFTPOS terminal.

8. Interest

8.1. If the Key Features Table indicates that your account is interest earning, we will pay you interest on the credit balance of your account.

8.2. We may change the interest rate from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. We will give you such notice of a change in the interest rate if we are legally required to do so.

8.3. You can find the current interest rates for your account at any time by visiting our website at Up.com.au.

8.4. We calculate interest by applying the daily percentage rate to the balance of your account (or if it is stepped interest, to the relevant part of your balance) at the end of each day. The daily percentage rate is the relevant interest rate divided by 365, or in a leap year, 366.

8.5. The type of account you have will determine when interest is credited to your account. The Key Features Table sets out when interest is credited.

9. Transaction Processing

9.1. We may assign any date we reasonably consider appropriate to a debit or credit to your account, except that, in the case of a debit, the date must not be earlier than the date on which the relevant transaction occurs. However, we will credit payments to your account as soon as practicable after we receive them. This is not necessarily the same day that you make the payment. We give effect to the debit or credit based upon the date assigned to it by us.

9.2. We may subsequently adjust debits and credits to your account so as to accurately reflect the legal obligations of you and us, for example, because of an error. If we do this, we may make consequential changes, including to interest.

For example: If a payment or deposit is made into your account in error, we may withdraw that payment or deposit from your account without your consent, including any interest paid into your account on that payment or deposit. If you have spent those funds you will be required to repay them or your account may be overdrawn.

9.3 We may reject, decline, fail to authorise, or delay any transaction to or from your account or, in the case of a credit to your account, delay making the funds available to you where we consider it reasonable to do so. Without limitation, this includes where:

we reasonably believe we are required to do so in order to comply with any applicable laws (including any laws relating to anti-money laundering or sanctions) or under the rules, regulations and procedures that apply to the payment system the transaction was processed through;
you fail to comply with any of your obligations under these terms and conditions; or
we consider it necessary or desirable to do so to enable us to review or investigate the transaction for any fraudulent, illegal or improper activity or for compliance with any applicable sanctions.

We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of us rejecting, declining, failing to authorise or delaying any transaction to or from your account or any delay in funds being made available to you.

10. Overdrawn accounts

10.1. You must keep a credit balance in your account at all times and must not overdraw your account or use a payment facility or request a payment service which could overdraw your account.

10.2. If you do overdraw your account in breach of these terms and conditions:

we may debit the overdrawn amount to your account;
we may restrict the way in which you gain access to your account, such as suspending card access;
your account may incur an Overdrawn Account Fee as per the fees and charges set out in this document;
we may calculate interest on the overdrawn amount on a daily basis, and debit it to your account half yearly for the Up Everyday Account & Monthly for the UP Saver Account, until the overdrawn amount is repaid;
you must repay the overdrawn amount immediately; and
we may cancel any payment facility linked to the account.

10.3. We may change the interest rates for overdrawn accounts from time to time at our discretion. If any law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law. Our current interest rates for overdrawn accounts are available on our website at Up.com.au.

10.4. We do not agree to provide you with credit merely because we debit an amount to your account that causes it to be overdrawn.

10.5. If you are the recipient of Centrelink benefits we will act in accordance with our obligations under the Code of Operation for Department of Human Services and Department of Veterans' Affairs Direct Credit Payments when exercising our rights in relation to your overdrawn account, for example, where we combine accounts. In particular unless otherwise agreed, we will allow you to access up to 90% of your future Centrelink benefits until the account is no longer overdrawn.

11. Account Combination

You agree that we may combine the balances of two or more of your accounts, including accounts you have with us that are not the subject of these terms and conditions. For example, we may do this if one of your accounts is overdrawn or in debit and the other is in credit. In this situation the credit in one account would be used to reduce the debit balance in the other account. We will promptly inform you if we combine your accounts. We need not notify you in advance.

12. Statements and Confirmation of Transactions

12.1 We will issue you with a statement of account at least once every 6 months.

If you would like to receive a statement of account more frequently, please contact us. A fee may apply to this service. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

12.2. You must immediately notify us if you notice an error or possible unauthorised transaction.

12.3. You should keep your statements safe for future reference.

12.4. You agree that confirmation of transactions involving your account or any payment facility may be provided in the Up app.

12.5. You agree that any request you make for a balance or information using the Up app or by any other means, in relation to any account which is regulated by a Consumer Credit Code is not a request for a statement of a kind referred to in that Code in respect of that regulated accounts.

13. Receipts and vouchers

13.1. You should keep your printed records of transactions to reconcile to your statement. We are not obliged to provide you with copies of merchant or transaction vouchers.

13.2. We strongly advise you to keep all of these documents in a safe place, as you may need them to do things such as complete tax returns, confirm payments have been made for goods and services and check for payments that are unpresented and how much money you have in your account at any one time.

13.3. If you misplace any of your account records or need us to provide you with information about any of your transactions, such as interest payments for tax purposes, we can help by conducting a search of our records. A fee may apply for this service to cover our costs. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

14. Cancelling a payment facility

14.1. We may at our absolute discretion cancel a payment facility at any time without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances in which we may do so, we may cancel a payment facility if:

we have received notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death;
we believe any of your access methods are being used, or will be used, in a way that will cause loss to you or us;
we reasonably believe you induced us to issue the payment facility by fraud;
you breach any of these terms and conditions;
we close your account; or
we believe the security or quality of the Up app or any other related service or network is threatened.

14.2. We will take and promptly process your instruction to cancel a direct debit request which is set up using your account number. You may cancel a direct debit request at any time by contacting us through our contact details.

14.3. You are encouraged to maintain a record of any Regular Payment arrangement entered into with a merchant using your card number.

14.4. To either change or cancel any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number you should contact the merchant at least 15 days prior to the next scheduled payment. Until you attempt to cancel the Regular Payment arrangement with the merchant directly we must accept the merchant's transaction. If possible you should retain a copy of their change/cancellation request. Should the merchant fail to act in accordance with these instructions you may have rights to dispute the p transaction.

14.5. Should your card number be changed i.e. as a result of lost or stolen card you must request the merchant to change the details of your existing Regular Payment arrangement to ensure arrangements continue. If you fail to undertake this activity your Regular Payment arrangement either may not be honoured by us or the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.6. Should you elect to close your account or your account is closed by us you should contact the merchant to amend any Regular Payment arrangement set up using your card number; as the merchant may stop providing the goods and/or services.

14.7. If we cancel a payment facility we will notify you as soon as possible afterwards except if we cancel a direct debit after being advised by the payee that no further payment is required or your account is closed.

14.8. You may alter, stop or cancel a payment facility at any time via the Up app or contacting us using our contact details.

14.9. If your card is cancelled, you must immediately destroy it for your protection.

14.10. If your access to the Up app is cancelled, we may refuse any transaction you initiate without giving any reason or advance notice to you.

14.11. If you cancel a direct debit we must receive your instructions at least 1 business day prior to the due date of the next payment, otherwise that payment may nevertheless be made. For direct debit cancellations we suggest that you also contact the merchant concerned.

15. Stopping or closing your account

15.1. You may request us to close your account only if it is in credit using the account in the UP app or by contacting us using our contact details

15.2. If a card is linked to your account, you must give us 14 days notice of your intention to close your account. You must destroy all cards issued on the account at the time of giving notice. This 14 day period is to allow for outstanding card transactions to be presented for payment before the account is closed.

15.3. We may close your account at any time, due to unsatisfactory conduct or for any other reason if we consider it necessary to prevent fraud or other losses to you or us, or to protect our legitimate interests, by giving you notice that is reasonable in all the relevant circumstances and paying to you any amount standing to the credit of your account. If you breach any of these terms and conditions or your account is opened with a zero balance and you do not operate your account within 180 days of opening, we may close the account without giving you prior notice.

15.4. We will give you notice as soon as possible after closing the account (unless we have previously given you notice) and will pay to you the amount standing to the credit of your account. This will not apply where we close any account opened with a zero balance and which has not been operated within 180 days of opening.

15.5. If your account is closed:

we may cancel any card linked to the account and disable your access to other payment facilities linked to the account;
you will be liable for any transactions that were not processed, or that occur, on the account (including, but not limited to, outstanding merchant purchases) at the time the account is closed;
you must pay to us on demand all unpaid fees and charges prior to closing the account;
we may require that any overdrawn or unpaid amounts be repaid to us before we agree to provide any other banking or financial products or services to you.

15.6. You should make arrangements for any automatic payments, direct debit, direct credit payments, interest payments or ongoing Pay Anyone Service Payments that are paid into or out of your account to be re-directed before the account is closed.

15.7. We reserve the right to withdraw any account from offer without notice.

15.8. We may place a stop on your account if:

you are in breach of any of the terms and conditions;
you have not provided us with information that we have asked you to provide;
we receive notice of your mental incapacity, bankruptcy or death; or
we become aware of any dispute which in our reasonable opinion has a bearing on the account.

If we place a stop on your account, you or anyone else will not be able to make any withdrawal transactions on the account or otherwise operate it. Credit transactions will still be allowed unless you specifically request credit transactions be stopped.

15.9. We are not liable for any loss or damage arising from placing a stop on your account.

15.10. If we receive notice of a dispute from a third party who claims a beneficial interest in the funds held in the account, we may at our discretion freeze the account until the dispute has been resolved to our reasonable satisfaction.

16. Account conversion

In the event we cease to provide, or allow you to access your account using, the Up app, we may convert your account to another type of deposit account with us by giving you reasonable prior notice of the conversion and giving you the terms and conditions that will apply to the new deposit account after the conversion takes effect.

17. Dormant accounts

17.1. If you do not operate your account for a number of years, your account may be deemed dormant.

17.2. We will contact you through the Up app or via SMS to notify you that your account is dormant, giving you the following options:

you can make a transaction to re-activate the account; or
you can close the account.

17.3. If you do not make a transaction to re-activate the account, your account will be closed and where required to do so by law, the balance of your account will be sent to the Commonwealth Government as unclaimed money.

18. Changes

18.1. Acting reasonably, we may change these terms and conditions at our absolute discretion at any time. If any law regulates that change, we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

18.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, you agree that we can give notice of changes to these terms and conditions and of any change that affects, any of the matters specified in this document (including changes to fees and charges and interest rates):

via the Up app;
in writing (including by notice in your statements of account);
by an advertisement published in a major daily newspaper published in Australia;
In such other manner as we reasonably consider is likely to come to the attention of as many account holders as possible; or
In accordance with clause 27.4.

18.3. The notice of change table sets out how much prior notice we will give you of changes, if prior notice is required.

If a Government charge payable directly or indirectly by you is introduced or varied, we will notify you by advertisement in the national media or local media or in writing unless the introduction or variation is publicised by the Government.

18.4. Notice of Change

Type of change	Minimum number of days notice
Any change that is an increase in fees or charges	30
A variation of the method by which interest is calculated
A variation of the frequency with which interest is debited or credited
A variation of the balance ranges within which interest rate apply	30
Increase your liability for losses relating to EFT transactions	30
Impose, remove or adjust the daily or periodical withdrawal limits applying to the use of an access method, an account from which we permit you to initiate EFT transactions, or electronic equipment	30
Change to the EFT conditions, BPAY conditions or Pay Anyone conditions (that is not caught by the above)
Note: We will not give you advance notice of a change necessitated by an immediate need to restore or maintain the security of the Up app, any systems it uses or connects to or individual accounts.	In time to comply with any applicable law.
Otherwise in advance of the date the change takes effect.
Other changes to the terms and conditions (apart from a change in Government charges payable directly or indirectly by you)	No later than the day on which the change takes effect
19. Tax

19.1. When you open an account with us, you have the option of supplying us with your Tax File Number.

19.2. Providing your Tax File Number is not compulsory, but is advisable.

19.3. If you choose not to provide us with your Tax File Number, we are required to deduct withholding tax at the highest marginal tax rate plus the Medicare Levy, when you earn interest income of $120 or more a year.

19.4. If you are entitled to an exemption in relation to this tax you should advise us of your type of exemption and provide any supporting documentation we may require.

19.5. The above clauses 19.1, 19.2 and 19.3 do not apply if you are not a resident of Australia. We are required to withhold Australian non-resident withholding tax from interest income earned on your account at the prescribed rate, which is currently 10%.

20. Privacy

20.1. We are committed to ensuring your privacy is protected and understand your concerns regarding the confidentiality and security of personal information you provide to us. Our privacy policy in relation to the accounts and payment facilities to which these terms and conditions apply is available on our website at https://up.com.au/privacy.

21. If you have a complaint

21.1. We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process as it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customers' expectations and address them genuinely, efficiently and effectively.

You can raise your complaint with us by contacting using our contact details.

21.2. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you have the option of referring the matter to our Customer Advocate who will impartially assess your complaint, keep you informed of the progress and provide you with a response. You can contact the Customer Advocate via:

telephone - 1300 139 572 (+61 3 5485 7919) between 8.30am and 5pm (AEST/AEDT), weekdays.
email - customeradvocate@bendigoadelaide.com.au
post -- write to Customer Advocate, P.O. Box 480, Bendigo, VIC 3552

21.3. Alternatively (or following consideration by the Customer Advocate) you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (refer to clause 21.5).

Concerns or complaints about EFT transactions

21.4. If your complaint is in relation to an EFT transaction, we will advise you in writing of the procedures for investigating and handling the complaint.

If we are unable to resolve the complaint within 45 days, we will notify you of this fact, inform you of the reasons for the delay, provide you with monthly updates on the progress of your complaint and specify a date by which a decision can reasonably be expected (unless we are waiting for a response from you and we have told you that we require that response);
when we have completed our investigation of your complaint, we will promptly advise you of the outcome of that investigation, the reasons for that outcome including references to relevant clauses of the ePayments Code and, except where the complaint has been resolved completely in your favour, we will inform you of any further action you can take under the ePayments Code. Our advice will be in writing unless we are able to resolve the matter immediately to the satisfaction of both you and us;
if on completion of our investigation we decide that your account has not been incorrectly debited or credited, or in the case of unauthorised transactions, that you have contributed to at least part of the loss occasioned by the unauthorised use, we will supply you with copies of any documents or other evidence relevant to the outcome of our investigation, including information about any logs or audit trails relating to the transaction and advise you whether there was any system or equipment malfunction at the time of the transaction (for example, if you don't protect your mobile phone by using a passcode or biometric lock it could contribute to the chance of unauthorised transactions);
if we conclude as a result of our investigation that your account has been incorrectly debited or credited we will promptly make adjustments to your account (including making adjustments to interest and charges) and notify you in writing of the amount by which your account has been debited or credited as a result;
if we decide to resolve your complaint in your favour, we may adjust your account accordingly within 7 business days of receiving the complaint and provide the information required by paragraph b and close the investigation. When we choose this course of action we are not required to comply with clause 21.5;
if we fail to observe the appropriate allocation of liability in accordance with the relevant clauses of the ePayments Code or fail to explain the reasons of any findings that you are liable by reference to relevant aspects of those paragraphs, or in any material respect we fail to observe the complaint investigation and resolution procedures set out in this clause or as required by the ePayments Code, and where such failure has contributed to a decision by us against you or delayed the resolution of your complaint, we may accept full or partial liability for the amount of the transaction which is the subject of your complaint.
Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA)

21.5. We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority. You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Telephone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

The Australian Financial Complaints Authority is provided to you free of charge.

22. If you have changed your name, address or contact details

22.1. If you have changed your name, we will need to amend our records as soon as possible. Before amending our records, we will require evidence of your name change, such as a marriage certificate, birth certificate, decree nisi or dissolution of marriage, or certificate of registration of change of name.

22.2. If you have changed your address (home, business, or email, where relevant) or contact details, you must provide us with your new address or contact details as soon as possible through the Up app.

22.3. You should advise us of the details of all of your accounts so that all our records can be changed.

22.4. You must notify us through the Up app as soon as possible of any proposed or actual changes to your financial or legal status (including name changes, mergers, administration or receivership, schemes of arrangement, bankruptcies, liquidations, windings up, dissolutions or acting or failing to act in a manner which could result in any of these situations) or any other material changes that may affect or impact upon your use of your account or any payment facility or your ability to continue operating in a financially viable manner.

23. Banking Code of Practice

23.1. The bank is bound by the Banking Code of Practice.

23.2. The Banking Code of Practice requires us to draw your attention to the availability of general descriptive information concerning our banking services. This includes:

information about account opening procedures;
our obligations regarding the confidentiality of your information;
complaint handling procedures;
the advisability of you informing us promptly when you are in financial difficulty so that we may discuss your situation;
the advisability of you reading the terms and conditions applying to this banking service.
24. Financial Claims Scheme

24.1. The Financial Claims Scheme protects depositors through the provision of a guarantee on deposits (up to a cap) held in authorised deposit-taking institutions (ADI's) in Australia and allows quick access to their deposits if an ADI becomes insolvent. As such please note the following information:

You may be entitled to a payment under the Financial Claims Scheme in the event that we become insolvent.
Accessibility to the Financial Claims Scheme is subject to eligibility criteria.
Information about the Financial Claims Scheme can be found at www.fcs.gov.au.

24.2. The Australian Government has given notice that it is reviewing the application of the Financial Claims Scheme to accounts held by non-residents of Australia. This may result in the Financial Claims Scheme no longer applying to accounts held with us by overseas customers.

25. Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing (AML/CTF)

25.1. We are committed to complying with anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing regulations. To comply with these requirements we may:

require you to provide to us, or otherwise obtain, any additional documentation or other information;
suspend, block or delay transactions on your account, or refuse to provide services to you;
report any, or any proposed, transaction or activity to anybody authorised to accept such reports relating to AML/CTF or any other law.
26. Liability

26.1. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using your account or a payment facility;
any delay or failure in processing a transaction on your behalf;
any transaction which is processed by us on your behalf;
any failure, malfunction, delay or error (for any reason) of any equipment, system or software (including, without limitation, the telephone, internet enabled device, software and telecommunications and ISP services you use to access an account or payment facility);
any unavailability or failure of a payment facility to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a card, passcode or PIN to permit you to access a payment facility;
any unauthorised access to, or disclosure of information relating to, your account through a payment facility; or
any other action taken or not taken in relation to your account or a payment facility.
27. Other

27.1. We may decide, at our discretion, the order in which payments will be processed.

27.2. We may give you a certificate about a matter in connection with an account. The certificate is sufficient proof of the matter, unless you prove the certificate is incorrect.

27.3. Notices and other communications for us may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by post to our registered office;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.4. Subject to the requirements of any law, notices and other communications for you may be:

sent via the Up app;
sent by email to your email address last notified to us;
sent by prepaid post or left at any address specified by you, or your residential or business address last known to us;
delivered by any other means permitted by law.

27.5. We may also give you notices and other communications by making them available electronically (for example, by publishing them on our website) and notifying you that we have done so and how you can obtain the notice or communication.

27.6. Enforcement expenses may become payable if you breach these terms and conditions. For instance, if you overdraw your account without our written permission we may take legal action to recover the debt. Any reasonable expenses we incur in recovering our debt will be payable by you and you authorise us to debit the amount of these expenses to your account.

Our rights under these terms and conditions

27.7. We may choose at any time to waive any of our rights under these terms and conditions. Subject to any applicable law, a waiver by us is not a change to, and does not reduce our rights under, these terms and conditions unless we give you written notice that it is a change to these terms and conditions.

27.8. Nothing in this agreement has the effect of excluding, restricting or modifying rights in the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act or Competition and Consumer Act, which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified by agreement.

27.9. Part or all of any provision of these terms and conditions that is illegal or unenforceable will be severed from these terms and conditions, however the remaining provisions of these terms and conditions will continue in force.

27.10. We may assign or otherwise deal with our rights under these terms and conditions in any way we consider appropriate.

27.11. You agree that we may disclose any information or documents we consider desirable to help us exercise this right. You also agree that we may disclose information or documents at any time to a person to whom we assign our rights under these terms and conditions.

27.12. You should inform us promptly if you are in financial difficulty.

27.13. To the extent that the National Credit Code applies to these terms and conditions and:

that Code would otherwise make a provision of these terms and conditions illegal, void or unenforceable; or
a provision of these terms and conditions would otherwise contravene a requirement of that Code or impose an obligation or liability which is prohibited by that Code,

these terms and conditions are to be read as if that provision were varied to the extent necessary to comply with that Code or, if necessary, omitted.

When your credit rating could be affected

27.14. If your account(s):

becomes overdrawn without arrangements; and
remains overdrawn for more than 60 days after the end of any period we allow for you to repay the amount overdrawn,

then we may commence enforcement action and report your default to a credit reporting agency.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-c_.txt ===

Section C: Cards

Current and historical versions of the Section C: Cards section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Friday, 11 March 2022
Friday, 27 March 2020
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

Up issues both digital and physical cards. Digital cards cannot be used at ATMs or in environments where contactless payment is not supported.

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply whenever we issue a card that is linked to an account to which this document applies.

28. Your Card

28.1. Cards are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

28.2. The issue and use of a card is at all times at our discretion. The card will always remain our property and must be returned to us on demand.

28.3. We may issue replacement cards at any time, for example when the cardholder has changed his or her name, or when the card has been damaged. If we issue a replacement card to you, you must not use the card it replaces and you remain liable for any use of the replaced card.

28.4. Before the expiry date of your card, we will automatically issue you with a renewal card unless you request us in writing not to do so. At least two months prior to your card expiring, you must notify us of any changes to your address. This will ensure our records are up to date in the event that we mail your reissued card directly to you.

28.5. If you wish to receive a physical card we will mail it to you via post. Once you have received the card, you are responsible for the security of the card.

28.6. You must choose a PIN for your card. We may ask you for this PIN at any time as further proof of your identity.

28.7. You may be required to produce suitable identification when using your card.

29. Using your card
Within Australia

29.1. You can use your physical card at ATMs to:

make withdrawals from your account; and
obtain account balances for your account.

29.2. Other financial institutions can determine from time to time what transactions can be carried out at their ATMs.

29.3. You can use your physical card at any EFTPOS terminal in Australia to purchase goods and services or withdraw cash from your account (providing the merchant operating the EFTPOS terminal has a policy which allows for cash withdrawals).

29.4. You can use your card at a contactless terminal to perform a contactless transaction if your card is capable of performing such transaction or if we allow you to register your card in a digital wallet. A cash withdrawal cannot be completed when performing a contactless transaction.

29.5. You can use your physical card at a Bank@Post™ terminal (however the Post Office may have restrictions and Australia Post reserves the right not to process a transaction) to;

make withdrawals from your Up Everyday account;
make deposits to your Up Everyday deposit account;
obtain account balances for your Up Everyday account.
Outside Australia

29.6. You can use your physical card to withdraw from your account at any ATM overseas bearing the Mastercard, Cirrus or Maestro symbol that allows you to select this option.

29.7. You should contact us via our contact details before travelling for information on use of your card overseas.

Within Australia and outside Australia

29.8. You can use your card to purchase goods or services via mail order, by telephone or by other means (such as the Internet) where the merchant accepts that form of payment.

Other

29.9. The fact that any promotional material is displayed at the premises does not mean that we guarantee that all goods and services available there may be obtained by using your card. We are not responsible if a merchant or financial institution refuses to accept your card, does not allow cash withdrawals or places other limitations on using your card.

29.10. To the extent permitted by law, we are not responsible for the following:

any goods or services which you have obtained from a merchant using your card;
any refund by a merchant.

29.11. If you have any complaints about goods or services, you must raise them directly with the merchant.

29.12. We do not warrant that ATMs will always have money available.

30. Card Transactions

30.1. All transactions need authorisation from us. We can refuse to authorise a proposed transaction if:

the transaction exceeds the cleared funds;
your card has been reported lost or stolen;
we have any other good reason to do so.

30.2. You authorise us to give information to other persons for the purpose of authorising transactions made using your card.

30.3. You authorise us to debit your account with the amount of any purchases, withdrawals and any other transactions made using your card.

31. Foreign Currency Transactions

31.1. Transactions in foreign currency amounts conducted using your card, may incur a fee. Current fees and charges are set out in this document. They are converted (depending on the foreign currency conversion) into either:

Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing; or
United States dollars and then into Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing.

31.2. The Australian dollar amount is then debited to your account.

31.3. When you use your card outside Australia you are bound by any exchange control requirements of the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Published Friday, 11 March 2022

Up issues both digital and physical cards. Digital cards cannot be used at ATMs or in environments where contactless payment is not supported.

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply whenever we issue a card that is linked to an account to which this document applies.

28. Your Card

28.1. Cards are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

28.2. The issue and use of a card is at all times at our discretion. The card will always remain our property and must be returned to us on demand.

28.3. We may issue replacement cards at any time, for example when the cardholder has changed his or her name, or when the card has been damaged. If we issue a replacement card to you, you must not use the card it replaces and you remain liable for any use of the replaced card.

28.4. Before the expiry date of your card, we will automatically issue you with a renewal card unless you request us in writing not to do so. At least two months prior to your card expiring, you must notify us of any changes to your address. This will ensure our records are up to date in the event that we mail your reissued card directly to you.

28.5. If you wish to receive a physical card we will mail it to you via post. Once you have received the card, you are responsible for the security of the card.

28.6. You must choose a PIN for your card. We may ask you for this PIN at any time as further proof of your identity.

28.7. You may be required to produce suitable identification when using your card.

29. Using your card
Within Australia

29.1. You can use your physical card at ATMs to:

make withdrawals from your account; and
obtain account balances for your account.

29.2. Other financial institutions can determine from time to time what transactions can be carried out at their ATMs.

29.3. You can use your physical card at any EFTPOS terminal in Australia to purchase goods and services or withdraw cash from your account (providing the merchant operating the EFTPOS terminal has a policy which allows for cash withdrawals).

29.4. You can use your card at a contactless terminal to perform a contactless transaction if your card is capable of performing such transaction or if we allow you to register your card in a digital wallet. A cash withdrawal cannot be completed when performing a contactless transaction.

29.5. You can use your physical card at a Bank@Post™ terminal (however the Post Office may have restrictions and Australia Post reserves the right not to process a transaction) to;

make withdrawals from your Up Everyday account;
make deposits to your Up Everyday deposit account;
obtain account balances for your Up Everyday account.
Outside Australia

29.6. You can use your physical card to withdraw from your account at any ATM overseas bearing the Mastercard, Cirrus or Maestro symbol that allows you to select this option.

29.7. You should contact us via our contact details before travelling for information on use of your card overseas.

Within Australia and outside Australia

29.8. You can use your card to purchase goods or services via mail order, by telephone or by other means (such as the Internet) where the merchant accepts that form of payment.

Other

29.9. The fact that any promotional material is displayed at the premises does not mean that we guarantee that all goods and services available there may be obtained by using your card. We are not responsible if a merchant or financial institution refuses to accept your card, does not allow cash withdrawals or places other limitations on using your card.

29.10. To the extent permitted by law, we are not responsible for the following:

any goods or services which you have obtained from a merchant using your card;
any refund by a merchant.

29.11. If you have any complaints about goods or services, you must raise them directly with the merchant.

29.12. We do not warrant that ATMs will always have money available.

30. Card Transactions

30.1. All transactions need authorisation from us. We can refuse to authorise a proposed transaction if:

the transaction exceeds the cleared funds;
your card has been reported lost or stolen;
we have any other good reason to do so.

30.2. You authorise us to give information to other persons for the purpose of authorising transactions made using your card.

30.3. You authorise us to debit your account with the amount of any purchases, withdrawals and any other transactions made using your card.

31. Foreign Currency Transactions

31.1. Transactions in foreign currency amounts conducted using your card, may incur a fee. Current fees and charges are set out in this document. They are converted (depending on the foreign currency conversion) into either:

Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing; or
United States dollars and then into Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing.

31.2. The Australian dollar amount is then debited to your account.

31.3. When you use your card outside Australia you are bound by any exchange control requirements of the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Published Friday, 27 March 2020

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply whenever we issue a card that is linked to an account to which this document applies.

28. Your Card

28.1. Cards are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

28.2. The issue and use of a card is at all times at our discretion. The card will always remain our property and must be returned to us on demand.

28.3. We may issue replacement cards at any time, for example when the cardholder has changed his or her name, or when the card has been damaged. If we issue a replacement card to you, you must not use the card it replaces and you remain liable for any use of the replaced card.

28.4. Before the expiry date of your card, we will automatically issue you with a renewal card unless you request us in writing not to do so. At least two months prior to your card expiring, you must notify us of any changes to your address. This will ensure our records are up to date in the event that we mail your reissued card directly to you.

28.5. You must sign your card as soon as you receive it. A card may not be accepted unless it has been signed. Your card is only valid for the period shown on it.

28.6. We will give a card to you by mailing it to you by post. Once you have received the card, you are responsible for the security of the card. We recommend against sending cards by ordinary post.

28.7. You must choose a PIN for your card. We may ask you for this PIN at any time as further proof of your identity.

28.8. You may be required to produce suitable identification when using your card.

28.9. An account must not be linked to more than one card per cardholder.

29. Using your card
Within Australia

29.1. You can use your card at ATMs to:

make withdrawals from your account; and
obtain account balances for your account.

29.2. Other financial institutions can determine from time to time what transactions can be carried out at their ATMs.

29.3. You can use your card at any EFTPOS terminal in Australia to purchase goods and services or withdraw cash from your account (providing the merchant operating the EFTPOS terminal has a policy which allows for cash withdrawals).

29.4. You can use your card at a contactless terminal to perform a contactless transaction if your card is capable of performing such transaction or if we allow you to register your card in a digital wallet. A cash withdrawal cannot be completed when performing a contactless transaction.

29.5. You can use your card at a Bank@Post™ terminal (however the Post Office may have restrictions and Australia Post reserves the right not to process a transaction) to;

make withdrawals from your Up Everyday account;
make deposits to your Up Everyday deposit account;
obtain account balances for your Up Everyday account.
Outside Australia

29.6. You can use your card to withdraw from your account at any ATM overseas bearing the Mastercard, Cirrus or Maestro symbol that allows you to select this option.

29.7. You should contact us via our contact details before travelling for information on use of your card overseas.

Within Australia and outside Australia

29.8. You can use your card to purchase goods or services via mail order, by telephone or by other means (such as the Internet) where the merchant accepts that form of payment.

Other

29.9. The fact that any promotional material is displayed at the premises does not mean that we guarantee that all goods and services available there may be obtained by using your card. We are not responsible if a merchant or financial institution refuses to accept your card, does not allow cash withdrawals or places other limitations on using your card.

29.10. To the extent permitted by law, we are not responsible for the following:

any goods or services which you have obtained from a merchant using your card;
any refund by a merchant.

29.11. If you have any complaints about goods or services, you must raise them directly with the merchant.

29.12. We do not warrant that ATMs will always have money available.

30. Card Transactions

30.1. All transactions need authorisation from us. We can refuse to authorise a proposed transaction if:

the transaction exceeds the cleared funds;
your card has been reported lost or stolen;
we have any other good reason to do so.

30.2. You authorise us to give information to other persons for the purpose of authorising transactions made using your card.

30.3. You authorise us to debit your account with the amount of any purchases, withdrawals and any other transactions made using your card.

31. Foreign Currency Transactions

31.1. Transactions in foreign currency amounts conducted using your card, may incur a fee. Current fees and charges are set out in this document. They are converted (depending on the foreign currency conversion) into either:

Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing; or
United States dollars and then into Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing.

31.2. The Australian dollar amount is then debited to your account.

31.3. When you use your card outside Australia you are bound by any exchange control requirements of the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply whenever we issue a card that is linked to an account to which this document applies.

28. Your Card

28.1. Cards are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

28.2. The issue and use of a card is at all times at our discretion. The card will always remain our property and must be returned to us on demand.

28.3. We may issue replacement cards at any time, for example when the cardholder has changed his or her name, or when the card has been damaged. If we issue a replacement card to you, you must not use the card it replaces and you remain liable for any use of the replaced card.

28.4. Before the expiry date of your card, we will automatically issue you with a renewal card unless you request us in writing not to do so. At least two months prior to your card expiring, you must notify us of any changes to your address. This will ensure our records are up to date in the event that we mail your reissued card directly to you.

28.5. You must sign your card as soon as you receive it. A card may not be accepted unless it has been signed. Your card is only valid for the period shown on it.

28.6. We will give a card to you by mailing it to you by post. Once you have received the card, you are responsible for the security of the card. We recommend against sending cards by ordinary post.

28.7. You must choose a PIN for your card. We may ask you for this PIN at any time as further proof of your identity.

28.8. You may be required to produce suitable identification when using your card.

28.9. An account must not be linked to more than one card per cardholder.

29. Using your card
Within Australia

29.1. You can use your card at ATMs to:

make withdrawals from your account; and
obtain account balances for your account.

29.2. Other financial institutions can determine from time to time what transactions can be carried out at their ATMs.

29.3. You can use your card at any EFTPOS terminal in Australia to purchase goods and services or withdraw cash from your account (providing the merchant operating the EFTPOS terminal has a policy which allows for cash withdrawals).

29.4. You can use your card at a contactless terminal to perform a contactless transaction if your card is capable of performing such transaction or if we allow you to register your card in a digital wallet. A cash withdrawal cannot be completed when performing a contactless transaction.

Outside Australia

29.5. You can use your card to withdraw from your account at any ATM overseas bearing the Mastercard, Cirrus or Maestro symbol that allows you to select this option.

29.6. You should contact us via our contact details before travelling for information on use of your card overseas.

Within Australia and outside Australia

29.7. You can use your card to purchase goods or services via mail order, by telephone or by other means (such as the Internet) where the merchant accepts that form of payment.

29.8. The fact that any promotional material is displayed at the premises does not mean that we guarantee that all goods and services available there may be obtained by using your card. We are not responsible if a merchant or financial institution refuses to accept your card, does not allow cash withdrawals or places other limitations on using your card.

29.9. To the extent permitted by law, we are not responsible for the following:

any goods or services which you have obtained from a merchant using your card;
any refund by a merchant.

29.10. If you have any complaints about goods or services, you must raise them directly with the merchant.

29.11. We do not warrant that ATMs will always have money available.

30. Card Transactions

30.1. All transactions need authorisation from us. We can refuse to authorise a proposed transaction if:

the transaction exceeds the cleared funds;
your card has been reported lost or stolen;
we have any other good reason to do so.

30.2. You authorise us to give information to other persons for the purpose of authorising transactions made using your card.

30.3. You authorise us to debit your account with the amount of any purchases, withdrawals and any other transactions made using your card.

31. Foreign Currency Transactions

31.1. Transactions in foreign currency amounts conducted using your card, may incur a fee. Current fees and charges are set out in this document. They are converted (depending on the foreign currency conversion) into either:

Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing; or
United States dollars and then into Australian dollars at the appropriate Mastercard International exchange rate as at the date of processing.

31.2. The Australian dollar amount is then debited to your account.

31.3. When you use your card outside Australia you are bound by any exchange control requirements of the Reserve Bank of Australia.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-d_.txt ===

Section D: The Up app

Current and historical versions of the Section D: The Up app section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply when you use the Up app.

32. Passcode and Biometric authentication

32.1. When you sign up for Up, you designate a passcode which you can subsequently use to authenticate with the Up app.

32.2. You acknowledge and accept that:

the mobile number you supply and your selected passcode together form the means by which we authenticate you when you use the Up app;
anyone using your mobile number and passcode will be able to authenticate themselves as you using the Up app, and hence will be able to access and conduct transactions on your accounts.

32.3. You authorise us to act upon all instructions given to us using your mobile number and passcode. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, you are liable for any such instructions.

32.4. We may delay acting on an instruction given by you when we reasonably believe it is necessary for us to do so.

33. Services Available Using the Up app

33.1. By using the Up app you may be able to:

review the balance of your accounts to determine the current or available balance;
transfer funds between accounts;
arrange recurring or future specific date funds transfers;
review the transaction history of an account;
review the details of a transaction on an account including the date of the transaction, the type of the transaction (such as a withdrawal or BPAY payment) and the amount;
select an individual transaction or a range of transactions on an account for closer examination;
access chat functionality which enables you to exchange secure messages with Up support staff. Sensitive information should not be submitted via chat (e.g. Tax File Numbers, Card Numbers. passcodes, PINs, etc);
make BPAY payments;
transfer funds using the Pay Anyone Service to any account at any financial institution within Australia using a valid BSB number and account number; and
Other actions and functionality, as we make it available.
34. Equipment

34.1. It is your responsibility to obtain and maintain any electronic equipment (e.g. computer hardware or smart phone) which you may need to access the Up app.

34.2. The Up app is available for iOS and Android devices and can be installed by using the app store functionality on those devices.

35. Access

35.1. You will only have access to an account using the Up app where:

the account is an Up account;
we have received no notification or we are unaware that the account is under a dispute of any kind with any other party or entity; and
we have received no notification or we are unaware that an application for bankruptcy or liquidation has been filed either by you, or issued or lodged by another person or entity.

35.2. In our discretion, we may require that you authenticate yourself in the Up app using two factor or progressive authentication before we accept your instructions for certain types of activities or transactions in the Up app. For example, we may require you insert a code we send you via SMS or other notification. Where we do so, we may refuse to accept your instruction until you have authenticated yourself as requested.

35.3. We will make reasonable efforts to ensure the availability of the Up app and ensure that information we make available to you through the Up app is correct. However, to the extent permitted by law, we do not guarantee the Up app will always be available or error free.

35.4. We may block access to the Up app at any time without notice if we believe either it is being misused by you or used without your authority.

35.5. You must only use the Up app on a device that has not had its operating software modified against the operating system provider's specifications or recommendations (i.e. it is not "jailbroken" or "rooted") and must promptly install and apply any operating system updates or security patches released by the operating system provider on your device.

35.6. We may temporarily block your access to the Up app at any time without prior notice to you in the event of any Up system malfunction.

35.7. We may remove your access to the Up app without giving you notice where you have not accessed the Up app for at least six months.

35.8. If you give us notice to cancel your access, you remain bound by these terms and conditions which may apply notwithstanding that your access has been cancelled.

35.9. Without limiting clause 35.4, 35.6 or 35.7, we may cease to allow you to access your accounts using the Up app, without providing any reason to you, at any time by providing reasonable prior notice to you.

36. Confirmation of Transactions

36.1. We will provide you with a transaction receipt number every time you make a transaction on your account using the Up app. You should record the transaction receipt number and it should be quoted if you or they have any queries in relation to that transaction.

36.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, records of transactions made using the Up app will be made available to you on the Up app immediately on completion of the transaction and as part of the associated account's transaction history for later viewing. You can save or print the transaction receipt at your own discretion. We will not provide you with a paper transaction record or receipt.

37. Our responsibility for the Up app

37.1. Subject to any other provisions of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Up app or a payment facility;
any malfunction or failure of any electronic equipment;
any malfunction or failure of any other system or software you use to access the Up app, including without limitation, telecommunications and ISP services;
any unavailability or failure (of which you should have been aware) of the Up app to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a passcode to permit you to access the Up app;
disclosure of information relating to your accounts through the Up app where the information has been obtained by or in conjunction with any person using your passcode or mobile number; or
any unauthorised access to your information transmitted by us through the Up app in relation to a nominated account.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

37.2. You acknowledge and accept that the Up app may only show transactions and balances current as at the previous business day.

38. Liability

38.1. You will be liable for all transactions on your account carried out using a supported access method. You authorise us to debit all such transactions to your account.

38.2. To the extent permitted by law, we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Up app.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code. This section and Section E apply when you use the Up app.

32. Passcode and Biometric authentication

32.1. When you sign up for Up, you designate a passcode which you can subsequently use to authenticate with the Up app.

32.2. You acknowledge and accept that:

the mobile number you supply and your selected passcode together form the means by which we authenticate you when you use the Up app;
anyone using your mobile number and passcode will be able to authenticate themselves as you using the Up app, and hence will be able to access and conduct transactions on your accounts.

32.3. You authorise us to act upon all instructions given to us using your mobile number and passcode. Subject to any other provision of these terms and conditions, you are liable for any such instructions.

32.4. We may delay acting on an instruction given by you when we reasonably believe it is necessary for us to do so.

33. Services Available Using the Up app

33.1. By using the Up app you may be able to:

review the balance of your accounts to determine the current or available balance;
transfer funds between accounts;
arrange recurring or future specific date funds transfers;
review the transaction history of an account;
review the details of a transaction on an account including the date of the transaction, the type of the transaction (such as a withdrawal or BPAY payment) and the amount;
select an individual transaction or a range of transactions on an account for closer examination;
access chat functionality which enables you to exchange secure messages with Up support staff. Sensitive information should not be submitted via chat (e.g. Tax File Numbers, Card Numbers. passcodes, PINs, etc);
make BPAY payments;
transfer funds using the Pay Anyone Service to any account at any financial institution within Australia using a valid BSB number and account number; and
Other actions and functionality, as we make it available.
34. Equipment

34.1. It is your responsibility to obtain and maintain any electronic equipment (e.g. computer hardware or smart phone) which you may need to access the Up app.

34.2. The Up app is available for iOS and Android devices and can be installed by using the app store functionality on those devices.

35. Access

35.1. You will only have access to an account using the Up app where:

the account is an Up account;
we have received no notification or we are unaware that the account is under a dispute of any kind with any other party or entity; and
we have received no notification or we are unaware that an application for bankruptcy or liquidation has been filed either by you, or issued or lodged by another person or entity.

35.2. In our discretion, we may require that you authenticate yourself in the Up app using two factor or progressive authentication before we accept your instructions for certain types of activities or transactions in the Up app. For example, we may require you insert a code we send you via SMS or other notification. Where we do so, we may refuse to accept your instruction until you have authenticated yourself as requested.

35.3. We will make reasonable efforts to ensure the availability of the Up app and ensure that information we make available to you through the Up app is correct. However, to the extent permitted by law, we do not guarantee the Up app will always be available or error free.

35.4. We may block access to the Up app at any time without notice if we believe either it is being misused by you or used without your authority.

35.5. You must only use the Up app on a device that has not had its operating software modified against the operating system provider's specifications or recommendations (i.e. it is not "jailbroken" or "rooted") and must promptly install and apply any operating system updates or security patches released by the operating system provider on your device.

35.6. We may temporarily block your access to the Up app at any time without prior notice to you in the event of any Up system malfunction.

35.7. We may remove your access to the Up app without giving you notice where you have not accessed the Up app for at least six months.

35.8. If you give us notice to cancel your access, you remain bound by these terms and conditions which may apply notwithstanding that your access has been cancelled.

35.9. Without limiting clause 35.4, 35.6 or 35.7, we may cease to allow you to access your accounts using the Up app, without providing any reason to you, at any time by providing reasonable prior notice to you.

36. Confirmation of Transactions

36.1. We will provide you with a transaction receipt number every time you make a transaction on your account using the Up app. You should record the transaction receipt number and it should be quoted if you or they have any queries in relation to that transaction.

36.2. Subject to the requirements of any law, records of transactions made using the Up app will be made available to you on the Up app immediately on completion of the transaction and as part of the associated account's transaction history for later viewing. You can save or print the transaction receipt at your own discretion. We will not provide you with a paper transaction record or receipt.

37. Our responsibility for the Up app

37.1. Subject to any other provisions of these terms and conditions, to the extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for or in connection with:

any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Up app or a payment facility;
any malfunction or failure of any electronic equipment;
any malfunction or failure of any other system or software you use to access the Up app, including without limitation, telecommunications and ISP services;
any unavailability or failure (of which you should have been aware) of the Up app to accept instructions from you;
any failure of a passcode to permit you to access the Up app;
disclosure of information relating to your accounts through the Up app where the information has been obtained by or in conjunction with any person using your passcode or mobile number; or
any unauthorised access to your information transmitted by us through the Up app in relation to a nominated account.

37.2. You acknowledge and accept that the Up app may only show transactions and balances current as at the previous business day.

38. Liability

38.1. You will be liable for all transactions on your account carried out using a supported access method. You authorise us to debit all such transactions to your account.

38.2. To the extent permitted by law, we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Up app.

38.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

However, you are not obliged to indemnify us in respect of any loss or damage we suffer to the extent it was incurred due to the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents, or a receiver appointed by us.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-e_.txt ===

Section E: Use and security of your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN

Current and historical versions of the Section E: Use and security of your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 11 April 2024
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 11 April 2024
39. Protecting your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN

39.1. The security of your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN is very important. You may be liable for unauthorised transactions which you contribute to by not keeping your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN secure. Your liability is governed by clause 44.

39.2. You must ensure that you:

keep your card, recovery code, passcode and PIN secure and protected;
do not tell anyone your PIN, passcode or recovery code;
do not record your PIN, passcode or recovery code in electronic or written form.
do not select a passcode or PIN that is easily identified with you (e.g. your date of birth, your name or part of it or your phone number);
do not select a passcode or PIN that is a common or easily guessed combination (e.g. repeated or consecutive numbers such as 5555 or 1234);
do not provide your PIN, recovery code, passcode or card to any person (including a family member or a friend);
do not allow any unauthorised person to observe or hear your recovery code, PIN or passcode;
do not allow any unauthorised person to enrol or register their biometric information on a device in which the Up app is installed and not install or use the Up app on any device on which another person has enrolled or registered their biometric information;
only sign in to or use the Up app on a device which is and remains in your possession and is secured in such a manner that it is only accessible by you, such as with a personal identification number or passcode that only you know, or with a biometric system such as a fingerprint or facial recognition system that only has your biometric information enrolled or registered in it.

39.3. If you have a card you must also ensure that you:

keep your card in a safe place;
check regularly that you have your card in your possession;
do not record your PIN on your card or carry any record of your PIN in an undisguised form with the card. (Merely placing a couple of digits at the beginning or end of your PIN disguising it as a telephone number or birth date is not sufficient);
do not let anyone use your card. You may be legally liable if someone else uses your card and PIN, with or without your permission;
destroy expired cards; and
collect your card from the ATM after completing a transaction.

39.4. The following ways of recording a PIN are often deciphered by thieves and it is strongly recommended that these ways are not used for recording PIN's:

recording the PIN as a series of numbers with any of them marked, circled or highlighted to indicate the PIN;
recording the PIN with surrounding information that makes it stand out from its context. For instance, a PIN recorded as a 4 or 6 digit telephone number where all other numbers are 8 digits;
recording the PIN as a string of digits in isolation from other information; and
recording the PIN as a birth date, postcode or telephone number without additional features of disguise.

39.5. A reasonable attempt must be made to protect the security of a PIN. Making any reasonable attempt to disguise the PIN within the record, or prevent unauthorised access to the PIN record, includes but is not limited to:

hiding or disguising the PIN record among other records,
hiding or disguising the PIN in a place where a PIN would not be expected to be found,
keeping a record of the PIN in a securely locked container, or
preventing unauthorised access to an electronically stored record of the PIN.

39.6. You must not act with extreme carelessness in failing to protect the security of your PIN where extreme carelessness means a degree of carelessness that greatly exceeds what would normally be considered careless behavior. An example of extreme carelessness is storing your PIN in an unprotected computer or diary under the heading PIN.

40. Loss, theft and unauthorised use of your card, device, passcode, recovery code or PIN

40.1. You must notify us immediately if:

any record you may have of your PIN, recovery code or passcode is lost or stolen;
someone has stolen your card;
you have lost your card;
you become aware or suspect another person knows your recovery code, PIN or passcode or has used your recovery code, PIN or passcode without your authority;
someone steals your device;
you lose your device;
you change or otherwise lose access to or the right to use your mobile phone number; or
the biometric identification method on your device becomes compromised or another person has registered their biometric details on your device.
Safeguarding payment instruments

You should safeguard payment instruments such as card and registered device. Subject to clauses 40, 41 and 42 you will be liable for all transactions arising from the use of a payment instrument until you have advised us of its loss, theft or misuse. If any of the above payment instruments are lost, stolen or misused, you should contact us immediately.

Lost and Stolen cards:

In Australia contact us on 1300 002 258 Overseas contact us on +61 1300 002 258

Alternatively, phone +1 636 722 7111 reverse charges (this service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week), or visit the Mastercard International website at mastercard.com to obtain a toll free number for the country you are travelling in.

40.2. Any unreasonable delay in notifying us may expose you to liability for losses incurred as a result of unauthorised access or transactions. Liability for unauthorised transactions is set out in clause 44.

40.3. You are not liable for any unauthorised transactions which could have been prevented during any period of unavailability of all these contact points as long as you notify us within a reasonable time of a contact point becoming available.

40.4. When you report the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card, PIN or passcode, you will be given a notification number which you should retain as evidence of the date and time of your report.

40.5. You should confirm any verbal notification via the Up app as soon as possible.

40.6. If you find your card after reporting it lost or stolen, cut it up and do not attempt to use it. We cancel all cards reported lost or stolen.

40.7. You can arrange for an emergency replacement card if required, at the time of reporting your card lost or stolen.

41. Your Liability -- Non PIN generated transactions

41.1. You are not liable for any transaction performed without your permission, unless you have contributed to the loss by:

letting someone else use your card; or
unreasonably delaying notifying us of the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card.

41.2. If you did either of these things, we may hold you liable for all transactions carried out using your card up to the time you notify us of the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card.

41.3. A disputed transaction may include:

An unauthorised transaction -- a transaction which you believe was not authorised by use of the card or account by you. This includes any unauthorised telephone, internet or mail orders or any other unauthorised transactions on your account.
General dispute -- a transaction which you wish to dispute. This may include a transaction which has been processed to your account more than once, or a transaction which was authorised by the use of your card or account which you wish to dispute.

41.4. Despite notifying us of a disputed transaction, you remain liable for any purchase made by you.

41.5. Mastercard have a dispute resolution process that is contained in the operating rule of the card scheme. This process sets out the specific circumstances and timeframes in which a member of the scheme (e.g. a bank) can claim a refund in connection with a disputed transaction on a cardholder's behalf. This is referred to as a 'chargeback right'. We will claim a chargeback right where one exists and you have disputed the transaction within the required time frame. We will claim the chargeback for the most appropriate reason. Our ability to investigate any disputed transaction on your account, and subsequently process a chargeback is restricted by the time limits imposed under the operating rules of the card scheme. The timeframes for us to process a chargeback (where a chargeback right exists) vary between 45 days and 120 days, depending on the type of transaction. We will not accept a refusal of a chargeback by a merchant's financial institution unless it is consistent with card scheme rules.

42. Electronic transactions

42.1. If the ePayments Code is applicable to a disputed transaction, the timeframes as specified in clause 41.5 may not apply in certain circumstances.

42.2. Our ability to dispute a transaction on your behalf (where a chargeback right exists) may be lost if you do not notify us within the required timeframes. For this reason, it is in your interest to report any disputed transaction to us immediately and certainly no later than the due date shown on the statement of account. Where it can be shown that you have unreasonably delayed notifying us, you may be liable for the loss on any disputed transaction.

42.3. If a dispute is withdrawn or resolved in favour of the merchant, a voucher retrieval fee may apply.

42.4. Where a dispute is resolved in your favour, we will make the necessary adjustments to any interest and fees charged as a result of your dispute.

To report an unauthorised transaction, please contact us via our contact methods.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019
39. Protecting your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN

39.1. The security of your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN is very important. You may be liable for unauthorised transactions which you contribute to by not keeping your card, biometric identification, passcode and PIN secure. Your liability is governed by clause 44.

39.2. You must ensure that you:

keep your card, recovery code, passcode and PIN secure and protected;
do not tell anyone your PIN, passcode or recovery code;
do not record your PIN, passcode or recovery code in electronic or written form.
do not select a passcode or PIN that is easily identified with you (e.g. your date of birth, your name or part of it or your phone number);
do not select a passcode or PIN that is a common or easily guessed combination (e.g. repeated or consecutive numbers such as 5555 or 1234);
do not provide your PIN, recovery code, passcode or card to any person (including a family member or a friend);
do not allow any unauthorised person to observe or hear your recovery code, PIN or passcode;
do not allow any unauthorised person to enrol or register their biometric information on a device in which the Up app is installed and not install or use the Up app on any device on which another person has enrolled or registered their biometric information;
only sign in to or use the Up app on a device which is and remains in your possession and is secured in such a manner that it is only accessible by you, such as with a personal identification number or passcode that only you know, or with a biometric system such as a fingerprint or facial recognition system that only has your biometric information enrolled or registered in it.

39.3. If you have a card you must also ensure that you:

sign your card as soon as you receive it;
keep your card in a safe place;
check regularly that you have your card in your possession;
do not record your PIN on your card or carry any record of your PIN in an undisguised form with the card. (Merely placing a couple of digits at the beginning or end of your PIN disguising it as a telephone number or birth date is not sufficient);
do not let anyone use your card. You may be legally liable if someone else uses your card and PIN, with or without your permission;
destroy expired cards; and
collect your card from the ATM after completing a transaction.

39.4. The following ways of recording a PIN are often deciphered by thieves and it is strongly recommended that these ways are not used for recording PIN's:

recording the PIN as a series of numbers with any of them marked, circled or highlighted to indicate the PIN;
recording the PIN with surrounding information that makes it stand out from its context. For instance, a PIN recorded as a 4 or 6 digit telephone number where all other numbers are 8 digits;
recording the PIN as a string of digits in isolation from other information; and
recording the PIN as a birth date, postcode or telephone number without additional features of disguise.

39.5. A reasonable attempt must be made to protect the security of a PIN. Making any reasonable attempt to disguise the PIN within the record, or prevent unauthorised access to the PIN record, includes but is not limited to:

hiding or disguising the PIN record among other records,
hiding or disguising the PIN in a place where a PIN would not be expected to be found,
keeping a record of the PIN in a securely locked container, or
preventing unauthorised access to an electronically stored record of the PIN.

39.6. You must not act with extreme carelessness in failing to protect the security of your PIN where extreme carelessness means a degree of carelessness that greatly exceeds what would normally be considered careless behavior. An example of extreme carelessness is storing your PIN in an unprotected computer or diary under the heading PIN.

40. Loss, theft and unauthorised use of your card, device, passcode, recovery code or PIN

40.1. You must notify us immediately if:

any record you may have of your PIN, recovery code or passcode is lost or stolen;
someone has stolen your card;
you have lost your card;
you become aware or suspect another person knows your recovery code, PIN or passcode or has used your recovery code, PIN or passcode without your authority;
someone steals your device;
you lose your device;
you change or otherwise lose access to or the right to use your mobile phone number; or
the biometric identification method on your device becomes compromised or another person has registered their biometric details on your device.
Safeguarding payment instruments

You should safeguard payment instruments such as card and registered device. Subject to clauses 40, 41 and 42 you will be liable for all transactions arising from the use of a payment instrument until you have advised us of its loss, theft or misuse. If any of the above payment instruments are lost, stolen or misused, you should contact us immediately.

Lost and Stolen cards:

In Australia contact us on 1300 002 258 Overseas contact us on +61 1300 002 258

Alternatively, phone +1 636 722 7111 reverse charges (this service is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week), or visit the Mastercard International website at mastercard.com to obtain a toll free number for the country you are travelling in.

40.2. Any unreasonable delay in notifying us may expose you to liability for losses incurred as a result of unauthorised access or transactions. Liability for unauthorised transactions is set out in clause 44.

40.3. You are not liable for any unauthorised transactions which could have been prevented during any period of unavailability of all these contact points as long as you notify us within a reasonable time of a contact point becoming available.

40.4. When you report the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card, PIN or passcode, you will be given a notification number which you should retain as evidence of the date and time of your report.

40.5. You should confirm any verbal notification via the Up app as soon as possible.

40.6. If you find your card after reporting it lost or stolen, cut it up and do not attempt to use it. We cancel all cards reported lost or stolen.

40.7. You can arrange for an emergency replacement card if required, at the time of reporting your card lost or stolen.

41. Your Liability -- Non PIN generated transactions

41.1. You are not liable for any transaction performed without your permission, unless you have contributed to the loss by:

letting someone else use your card; or
unreasonably delaying notifying us of the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card.

41.2. If you did either of these things, we may hold you liable for all transactions carried out using your card up to the time you notify us of the loss, theft or unauthorised use of your card.

41.3. A disputed transaction may include:

An unauthorised transaction -- a transaction which you believe was not authorised by use of the card or account by you. This includes any unauthorised telephone, internet or mail orders or any other unauthorised transactions on your account.
General dispute -- a transaction which you wish to dispute. This may include a transaction which has been processed to your account more than once, or a transaction which was authorised by the use of your card or account which you wish to dispute.

41.4. Despite notifying us of a disputed transaction, you remain liable for any purchase made by you.

41.5. Mastercard have a dispute resolution process that is contained in the operating rule of the card scheme. This process sets out the specific circumstances and timeframes in which a member of the scheme (e.g. a bank) can claim a refund in connection with a disputed transaction on a cardholder's behalf. This is referred to as a 'chargeback right'. We will claim a chargeback right where one exists and you have disputed the transaction within the required time frame. We will claim the chargeback for the most appropriate reason. Our ability to investigate any disputed transaction on your account, and subsequently process a chargeback is restricted by the time limits imposed under the operating rules of the card scheme. The timeframes for us to process a chargeback (where a chargeback right exists) vary between 45 days and 120 days, depending on the type of transaction. We will not accept a refusal of a chargeback by a merchant's financial institution unless it is consistent with card scheme rules.

42. Electronic transactions

42.1. If the ePayments Code is applicable to a disputed transaction, the timeframes as specified in clause 41.5 may not apply in certain circumstances.

42.2. Our ability to dispute a transaction on your behalf (where a chargeback right exists) may be lost if you do not notify us within the required timeframes. For this reason, it is in your interest to report any disputed transaction to us immediately and certainly no later than the due date shown on the statement of account. Where it can be shown that you have unreasonably delayed notifying us, you may be liable for the loss on any disputed transaction.

42.3. If a dispute is withdrawn or resolved in favour of the merchant, a voucher retrieval fee may apply.

42.4. Where a dispute is resolved in your favour, we will make the necessary adjustments to any interest and fees charged as a result of your dispute.

To report an unauthorised transaction, please contact us via our contact methods.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-f_.txt ===

Section F: EFT Transactions – PIN, Passcode and mobile number generated transactions

Current and historical versions of the Section F: EFT Transactions – PIN, Passcode and mobile number generated transactions section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Friday, 31 May 2019

We warrant that we will comply with the requirements of the ePayments Code.

43. Liability for authorised transactions

43.1. You are responsible for all transactions carried out using a PIN, or your registered mobile number and passcode, by you or by anyone else with your knowledge and consent.

43.2. If the Up app malfunctions after having accepted your instructions or fails to complete the transaction in accordance with your instructions resulting in loss to you of some or all of the amount of a transaction, we will correct that loss by making any necessary adjustments to your account, including an adjustment of any interest or fee. If you consider that you have incurred additional losses as a consequence of the malfunction you may make a claim for any such loss.

43.3. If you are aware or should have been aware that the Up app was unavailable for use or was malfunctioning, then our responsibility will be limited to the correction of errors in your account and the refund of any fee imposed as a result.

43.4. We may withdraw electronic access to your account without prior notice to you in the event of any Up app malfunction.

44. Liability for unauthorised transactions

44.1. You will not be liable for losses arising out of:

unauthorised transactions where it is clear that you have not contributed to the loss;
the fraudulent or negligent conduct of our employees or agents or companies involved in networking arrangements or of merchants who are linked to the EFT system or their agents or employees;
any component of an access method that is forged, faulty, expired or cancelled;
unauthorised transactions occurring after you have notified us as required by these terms and conditions of the loss, theft or misuse of a card, forming part of an access method or that the security of a PIN, your passcode or mobile number has been breached;
transactions which require the use of a card or PIN linked to your account, and that occurred before you received that card or PIN from us (including a reissued or replacement card or PIN);
the same transaction being incorrectly debited more than once to the same account.

44.2. You are liable where we can prove on the balance of probability that you have contributed to the losses in any of the following ways:

through your fraud;
by you voluntarily disclosing the recovery code, PIN or your passcode to anyone, including a family member or friend;
by keeping a record of the PIN (without making any reasonable attempt to disguise the PIN or prevent unauthorised access to the PIN) on the one article, or on several articles, carried with the card, so that they are liable to loss or theft simultaneously with the card;
by keeping a record of your PIN or passcode (without making any reasonable attempt to protect the security of the records) on the one article, or on several articles so that they are liable to loss or theft simultaneously;
where we permit you to select or change a PIN or passcode, by selecting numbers which represent your birth date or letters which are a recognisable part of your name, if immediately before this was done we specifically warned you not to do so and that you might incur liability by doing so;
by acting with extreme carelessness in failing to protect the security of the recovery code, PIN or your passcode;
where the ePayments Code requires, that the recording or voluntary disclosure of one or more but not all of the codes forming part of the access method was the dominant contributing cause of the loss;
by leaving a card in an ATM which incorporates reasonable safety standards that mitigate the risk of a card being left in the ATM.

In these cases, you will be liable for the actual losses which happened before you notified us that the card had been misused, lost or stolen or that the security of an access method had been breached, but you will not be liable for any of the following amounts:

that portion of the losses incurred on any one day which exceed the applicable daily withdrawal limits;
that portion of the losses incurred in a period which exceeds any other periodic withdrawal limits applicable to that period;
that portion of the total losses incurred on any account which exceeds the balance of that account (including any prearranged credit);
all losses incurred on any accounts which we and you had not agreed could be accessed using the access method;
any losses incurred as a result of conduct we expressly authorised you to engage in;
any losses incurred as a result of you disclosing, recording or storing a recovery code, PIN or passcode in a way that is required for the purposes of using a service such as a password manager, or storing your codes in an electronic wallet on your computer which is expressly or implicitly promoted, endorsed or authorised by us.

44.3. Where we can prove on the balance of probability that you have contributed to the losses by unreasonably delaying notification after becoming aware of the misuse, loss or theft of a card forming part of the access method, or that the security of all the codes forming part of the access method has been breached, you are liable for the actual losses which occur between when you became aware (or should reasonably have become aware in the case of a lost or stolen card) and when we were actually notified, but you are not liable for any of the following amounts:

that portion of the losses incurred on any one day which exceed any applicable daily withdrawal limits;
that portion of the losses incurred in a period which exceeds any other periodic withdrawal limits applicable to that period;
that portion of the total losses incurred on any account which exceeds the balance of that account;
all losses incurred on any accounts which you and we had not agreed could be accessed using the access method.

44.4. Where we cannot prove you were liable under clauses 44.2 or 44.3 and a PIN or passcode was required to perform the unauthorised transaction, you will be liable for the least of:

$150;
the balance of those accounts (including any prearranged credit) which you and we have agreed may be accessed using the access method;
the actual loss at the time we were notified (where relevant) that the card has been misused, lost or stolen or that the security of the codes forming part of the access method has been breached (excluding that portion of the losses incurred on any one day which exceed any applicable daily withdrawal or other periodical withdrawal limits).

44.5. | You authorise us to debit any amount for which you are liable under this clause 44 to your account.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-g_.txt ===

Section G: BPAY

Current and historical versions of the Section G: BPAY section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Tuesday, 3 December 2019
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023
45. About the BPAY scheme

45.1. This section applies if you ask us to make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

45.2. The BPAY scheme is an electronic payments scheme through which you can ask us to make payments to billers who inform you that you can make BPAY payments to them through the BPAY scheme.

45.3. We are a member of the BPAY scheme and we will inform you if we are no longer a member.

45.4. Access to the Up app is required to make BPAY payments through the BPAY scheme for Up accounts.

45.5. We are not acting as your agent or the agent of the biller when we make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

46. Using the BPAY scheme

46.1. When you tell us to make a BPAY payment, you must provide us with the following information in the Up app:

the account from which the BPAY payment is to be debited;
the BPAY biller code of the biller to be paid;
the amount of the BPAY payment; and
the biller customer reference number.

46.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a BPAY payment if you do not give to us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

46.3. We will then debit the account you specify with the amount of that BPAY payment.

46.4. We may decide not to make the BPAY payment if there are insufficient cleared funds in the specified account at the time you have told us to make that payment.

47. Payments

47.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a BPAY payment may be made or impose limits on the amount of BPAY payments.

47.2. We will not accept an instruction to stop a BPAY payment once you have instructed us to make that BPAY payment except for future dated payments which can be cancelled before the due payment date.

47.3. Billers who participate in the BPAY scheme have agreed that a BPAY payment you make will be treated as received by the biller to whom it is directed:

on the date that you make that BPAY payment, if you tell us to make the BPAY payment before our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 51 below);
on the next business day, if you tell us to make a BPAY payment after our payment cut-off time on a business day or on a non- business day; or
on the day or next business day, you have nominated for a scheduled payment to take place.

47.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a BPAY payment where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you tell us to make a BPAY payment;
you tell us to make a BPAY payment either on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day;
another financial institution participating in the BPAY scheme does not comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme;
a biller fails to comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme.

47.5. Although a delay in processing a BPAY payment is not expected to continue for more than one business day, you acknowledge and accept that a delay may continue for a longer period.

47.6. Regardless of when an immediate BPAY payment is made, the account from which you want us to debit the BPAY payment will be debited immediately.

48. If the amount of a payment to a biller is incorrect

48.1. You must ensure that the information in relation to each BPAY payment is correct. If you discover that you have instructed us to make a payment to a biller for an incorrect amount:

if the amount you instructed us to pay is greater than the required amount, contact the biller for a refund;
if the amount is less than the required amount, you should make a further BPAY payment for the difference.
49. When a Biller cannot process a payment

49.1. If we are notified that your BPAY payment cannot be processed by a biller, we will notify you and credit your account for the amount of the BPAY payment.

50. Suspension of BPAY

50.1. We may suspend your right to participate in the BPAY service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent manner.

51. Cut-off times

51.1. If you instruct us to make a BPAY payment before the time specified below, it will in most cases be treated as having been made on the same day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday 6:30pm (Victorian Time) Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

51.2. BPAY payments may take longer to be credited to a biller if you tell us to make a BPAY payment on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the biller does not process a payment as soon as they receive its details.

52. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

52.1. You must notify us immediately if:

you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the BPAY payment amount -- see clause 48.1) when instructing us to make a BPAY payment;
you did not authorise the BPAY payment from your account;
you believe the BPAY payment was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a BPAY payment.

52.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your BPAY payment in the way described in this clause. If a BPAY payment is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised BPAY payment will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause, we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme.

52.3. If a BPAY payment is made to a person or for an amount which is not in accordance with your instructions (if any), and your account has been debited with the amount of that payment, we will credit that amount to your account. However, if you were responsible for a mistake resulting in that payment and we cannot recover the amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who received the amount of that payment, you must pay us that amount and you authorise us to debit that amount from your account.

52.4. If a BPAY payment is made in accordance with a payment direction which appeared to us to be from you or on your behalf but for which you did not give authority, we will credit your account with the amount of that unauthorised payment. However, you must pay us the amount of that unauthorised payment, and you authorise us to debit that amount to your account, if:

we cannot recover that amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who receives it; and
the payment was made as a result of a payment direction which didn't comply with any requirements we may have for such payments directions.

52.5. If a BPAY payment is induced by the fraud of a person involved in the BPAY scheme, then that person should refund you the amount of the fraud induced payment. However, if that person does not refund the amount of the fraud induced payment, you must bear that loss (and you authorised us to debit that amount of the fraud induced payment to your account) unless some other person involved in the BPAY scheme knew of the fraud or would have detected it with reasonable diligence, in which case we will attempt to obtain a refund for you of the fraud induced payment.

52.6. If a BPAY payment you have made falls with the type described in clause 52.3 and also clause 52.4 or 52.5, then we will apply the principles set out in clause 52.4. If a BPAY payment you have made falls within both the types described in clauses 52.3 and 52.5, then we will apply the principles set out in clause 52.5.

52.7. If you tell us that a BPAY payment made from your account is unauthorised, you must first give us your written consent addressed to the biller who received that BPAY payment, consenting to us obtaining from the biller information about your account with that biller or the BPAY payment, including your customer reference number and such information as we reasonably require to investigate the BPAY payment. We are not obligated to investigate or rectify any BPAY payment if you do not give us this consent. If you do not give us that consent, the biller may not be permitted under law to disclose to us information we need to investigate or rectify that BPAY payment.

52.8. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme, other than loss or damage which is due to our negligence or a breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

Published Tuesday, 3 December 2019
45. About the BPAY scheme

45.1. This section applies if you ask us to make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

45.2. The BPAY scheme is an electronic payments scheme through which you can ask us to make payments to billers who inform you that you can make BPAY payments to them through the BPAY scheme.

45.3. We are a member of the BPAY scheme and we will inform you if we are no longer a member.

45.4. Access to the Up app is required to make BPAY payments through the BPAY scheme for Up accounts.

45.5. We are not acting as your agent or the agent of the biller when we make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

46. Using the BPAY scheme

46.1. When you tell us to make a BPAY payment, you must provide us with the following information in the Up app:

the account from which the BPAY payment is to be debited;
the BPAY biller code of the biller to be paid;
the amount of the BPAY payment; and
the biller customer reference number.

46.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a BPAY payment if you do not give to us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

46.3. We will then debit the account you specify with the amount of that BPAY payment.

46.4. We may decide not to make the BPAY payment if there are insufficient cleared funds in the specified account at the time you have told us to make that payment.

47. Payments

47.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a BPAY payment may be made or impose limits on the amount of BPAY payments.

47.2. We will not accept an instruction to stop a BPAY payment once you have instructed us to make that BPAY payment except for future dated payments which can be cancelled before the due payment date.

47.3. Billers who participate in the BPAY scheme have agreed that a BPAY payment you make will be treated as received by the biller to whom it is directed:

on the date that you make that BPAY payment, if you tell us to make the BPAY payment before our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 65 below);
on the next business day, if you tell us to make a BPAY payment after our payment cut-off time on a business day or on a non- business day; or
on the day or next business day, you have nominated for a scheduled payment to take place.

47.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a BPAY payment where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you tell us to make a BPAY payment;
you tell us to make a BPAY payment either on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day;
another financial institution participating in the BPAY scheme does not comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme;
a biller fails to comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme.

47.5. Although a delay in processing a BPAY payment is not expected to continue for more than one business day, you acknowledge and accept that a delay may continue for a longer period.

47.6. Regardless of when an immediate BPAY payment is made, the account from which you want us to debit the BPAY payment will be debited immediately.

48. If the amount of a payment to a biller is incorrect

48.1. You must ensure that the information in relation to each BPAY payment is correct. If you discover that you have instructed us to make a payment to a biller for an incorrect amount:

if the amount you instructed us to pay is greater than the required amount, contact the biller for a refund;
if the amount is less than the required amount, you should make a further BPAY payment for the difference.
49. When a Biller cannot process a payment

49.1. If we are notified that your BPAY payment cannot be processed by a biller, we will notify you and credit your account for the amount of the BPAY payment.

50. Suspension of BPAY

50.1. We may suspend your right to participate in the BPAY service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent manner.

51. Cut-off times

51.1. If you instruct us to make a BPAY payment before the time specified below, it will in most cases be treated as having been made on the same day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday 6:30pm (Victorian Time) Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

51.2. BPAY payments may take longer to be credited to a biller if you tell us to make a BPAY payment on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the biller does not process a payment as soon as they receive its details.

52. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

52.1. You must notify us immediately if:

you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the BPAY payment amount -- see clause 48.1) when instructing us to make a BPAY payment;
you did not authorise the BPAY payment from your account;
you believe the BPAY payment was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a BPAY payment.

52.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your BPAY payment in the way described in this clause. If a BPAY payment is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised BPAY payment will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause, we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme.

52.3. If a BPAY payment is made to a person or for an amount which is not in accordance with your instructions (if any), and your account has been debited with the amount of that payment, we will credit that amount to your account. However, if you were responsible for a mistake resulting in that payment and we cannot recover the amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who received the amount of that payment, you must pay us that amount and you authorise us to debit that amount from your account.

52.4. If a BPAY payment is made in accordance with a payment direction which appeared to us to be from you or on your behalf but for which you did not give authority, we will credit your account with the amount of that unauthorised payment. However, you must pay us the amount of that unauthorised payment, and you authorise us to debit that amount to your account, if:

we cannot recover that amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who receives it; and
the payment was made as a result of a payment direction which didn't comply with any requirements we may have for such payments directions.

52.5. If a BPAY payment is induced by the fraud of a person involved in the BPAY scheme, then that person should refund you the amount of the fraud induced payment. However, if that person does not refund the amount of the fraud induced payment, you must bear that loss (and you authorised us to debit that amount of the fraud induced payment to your account) unless some other person involved in the BPAY scheme knew of the fraud or would have detected it with reasonable diligence, in which case we will attempt to obtain a refund for you of the fraud induced payment.

52.6. If a BPAY payment you have made falls with the type described in clause 52.3 and also clause 52.4 or 52.5, then we will apply the principals set out in clause 52.4. If a BPAY payment you have made falls within both the types described in clauses 52.3 and 52.5, then we will apply the principles set out in clause 52.5.

52.7. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under these BPAY conditions; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions of your account.

52.8. If you tell us that a BPAY payment made from your account is unauthorised, you must first give us your written consent addressed to the biller who received that BPAY payment, consenting to us obtaining from the biller information about your account with that biller or the BPAY payment, including your customer reference number and such information as we reasonably require to investigate the BPAY payment. We are not obligated to investigate or rectify any BPAY payment if you do not give us this consent. If you do not give us that consent, the biller may not be permitted under law to disclose to us information we need to investigate or rectify that BPAY payment.

52.9. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme, other than loss or damage which is due to our negligence or a breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019
45. About the BPAY scheme

45.1. This section applies if you ask us to make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

45.2. The BPAY scheme is an electronic payments scheme through which you can ask us to make payments to billers who inform you that you can make BPAY payments to them through the BPAY scheme.

45.3. We are a member of the BPAY scheme and we will inform you if we are no longer a member.

45.4. Access to the Up app is required to make BPAY payments through the BPAY scheme for Up accounts.

45.5. We are not acting as your agent or the agent of the biller when we make a BPAY payment on your behalf.

46. Using the BPAY scheme

46.1. When you tell us to make a BPAY payment, you must provide us with the following information in the Up app:

the account from which the BPAY payment is to be debited;
the BPAY biller code of the biller to be paid;
the amount of the BPAY payment; and
the biller customer reference number.

46.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a BPAY payment if you do not give to us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

46.3. We will then debit the account you specify with the amount of that BPAY payment.

46.4. We may decide not to make the BPAY payment if there are insufficient cleared funds in the specified account at the time you have told us to make that payment.

47. Payments

47.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a BPAY payment may be made or impose limits on the amount of BPAY payments.

47.2. We will not accept an instruction to stop a BPAY payment once you have instructed us to make that BPAY payment except for future dated payments which can be cancelled before the due payment date.

47.3. Billers who participate in the BPAY scheme have agreed that a BPAY payment you make will be treated as received by the biller to whom it is directed:

on the date that you make that BPAY payment, if you tell us to make the BPAY payment before our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 65 below);
on the next business day, if you tell us to make a BPAY payment after our payment cut-off time on a business day or on a non- business day; or
on the day or next business day, you have nominated for a scheduled payment to take place.

47.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a BPAY payment where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you tell us to make a BPAY payment;
you tell us to make a BPAY payment either on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day;
another financial institution participating in the BPAY scheme does not comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme;
a biller fails to comply with its obligations under the BPAY scheme.

47.5. Although a delay in processing a BPAY payment is not expected to continue for more than one business day, you acknowledge and accept that a delay may continue for a longer period.

47.6. Regardless of when an immediate BPAY payment is made, the account from which you want us to debit the BPAY payment will be debited immediately.

48. If the amount of a payment to a biller is incorrect

48.1. You must ensure that the information in relation to each BPAY payment is correct. If you discover that you have instructed us to make a payment to a biller for an incorrect amount:

if the amount you instructed us to pay is greater than the required amount, contact the biller for a refund;
if the amount is less than the required amount, you should make a further BPAY payment for the difference.
49. When a Biller cannot process a payment

49.1. If we are notified that your BPAY payment cannot be processed by a biller, we will notify you and credit your account for the amount of the BPAY payment.

50. Suspension of BPAY

50.1. We may suspend your right to participate in the BPAY service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent manner.

51. Cut-off times

51.1. If you instruct us to make a BPAY payment before the time specified below, it will in most cases be treated as having been made on the same day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday 5pm (Victorian Time)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

51.2. BPAY payments may take longer to be credited to a biller if you tell us to make a BPAY payment on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the biller does not process a payment as soon as they receive its details.

52. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

52.1. You must notify us immediately if:

you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the BPAY payment amount -- see clause 48.1) when instructing us to make a BPAY payment;
you did not authorise the BPAY payment from your account;
you believe the BPAY payment was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a BPAY payment.

52.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your BPAY payment in the way described in this clause. If a BPAY payment is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised BPAY payment will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause, we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme.

52.3. If a BPAY payment is made to a person or for an amount which is not in accordance with your instructions (if any), and your account has been debited with the amount of that payment, we will credit that amount to your account. However, if you were responsible for a mistake resulting in that payment and we cannot recover the amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who received the amount of that payment, you must pay us that amount and you authorise us to debit that amount from your account.

52.4. If a BPAY payment is made in accordance with a payment direction which appeared to us to be from you or on your behalf but for which you did not give authority, we will credit your account with the amount of that unauthorised payment. However, you must pay us the amount of that unauthorised payment, and you authorise us to debit that amount to your account, if:

we cannot recover that amount within 20 business days of us attempting to do so from the person who receives it; and
the payment was made as a result of a payment direction which didn't comply with any requirements we may have for such payments directions.

52.5. If a BPAY payment is induced by the fraud of a person involved in the BPAY scheme, then that person should refund you the amount of the fraud induced payment. However, if that person does not refund the amount of the fraud induced payment, you must bear that loss (and you authorised us to debit that amount of the fraud induced payment to your account) unless some other person involved in the BPAY scheme knew of the fraud or would have detected it with reasonable diligence, in which case we will attempt to obtain a refund for you of the fraud induced payment.

52.6. If a BPAY payment you have made falls with the type described in clause 52.3 and also clause 52.4 or 52.5, then we will apply the principals set out in clause 52.4. If a BPAY payment you have made falls within both the types described in clauses 52.3 and 52.5, then we will apply the principles set out in clause 52.5.

52.7. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under these BPAY conditions; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions of your account.

52.8. If you tell us that a BPAY payment made from your account is unauthorised, you must first give us your written consent addressed to the biller who received that BPAY payment, consenting to us obtaining from the biller information about your account with that biller or the BPAY payment, including your customer reference number and such information as we reasonably require to investigate the BPAY payment. We are not obligated to investigate or rectify any BPAY payment if you do not give us this consent. If you do not give us that consent, the biller may not be permitted under law to disclose to us information we need to investigate or rectify that BPAY payment.

52.9. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the BPAY scheme, other than loss or damage which is due to our negligence or a breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-h_.txt ===

Section H: Automatic payments

Current and historical versions of the Section H: Automatic payments section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

This section applies if you arrange for automatic payments to be made out of your account. Automatic payments are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

Types of automatic payments

53.1. If you give us authority, we can have regular payments made automatically out of your account on pre-set dates, advised by you. This type of payment is called a "direct debit". A direct debit is when a company, organisation or fund, sends direct debits to your account according to an authority which you need to set up through the company, organisation or fund receiving the money, allowing us to make these payments.

54. Arranging an automatic payment

54.1. The biller will supply you with a Direct Debit Request Service Agreement for you to complete and sign to provide them with this authority.

54.2. You must give us the information we require to enable us to make an automatic payment. This information may include the BSB and account numbers, and account name of the accounts from and to which payments are to be made. You must check that all information you give to us is correct (including, but not limited to, the BSB and the account number). We do not check, and are not responsible for checking, that any information you give to us is correct, including whether the BSB and account numbers correspond to the account name which you advise us. You are liable for any payment we carry out in accordance with your instructions.

55. Timing of the automatic payment

55.1. The details regarding timing of the payment will be outlined in the Direct Debit Request Service Agreement your biller has supplied to you.

55.2. You must ensure that you have sufficient cleared funds available in your account from which a payment will be made, to enable that payment to be made. If the payment date falls on a day other than a business day, those funds must be available by 10am (AEST/AEDT) on the previous day.

55.3. If you have insufficient funds in your account, any direct debits may be returned unpaid (dishonoured) to the originating third party.

55.4. A fee may be debited to your account in these circumstances. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

55.5. If you have insufficient funds in your account on three consecutive payment due dates, the authority will be cancelled and you will be notified via the Up app.

55.6. Subject to these conditions, when you instruct us to make a payment to an account held with another financial institution, we will endeavour to make that payment to the BSB and account number you advise us. If you give us instructions to make a payment on a business day after 10am (AEST/AEDT) on that business day, we may process that payment the following business day.

56. Liability

56.1. To the extent permitted by law and subject to any other provisions of these terms and conditions, we are not liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the automatic payment facility or any delay, omission or failure in respect of any payment. Without limitation, this includes, if you request us to make a payment to an account held with another financial institution:

any delay or failure to make a payment which results in a technical failure in the system we use to make a payment from your account with us to another financial institution; and
any omission, delay or failure on the part of the other financial institution in processing that payment.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

56.2. If we debit or credit your account under an automatic payment arrangement we are not acting as your agent or the agent of another person. We are not liable for any loss or damage to you from us not acting as you require.

57. Migrating a direct debit arrangement to PayTo

If you have authorised a merchant or other third party to debit your account as a direct debit arrangement and the merchant or third party migrates the direct debit arrangement to PayTo, the direct debit arrangement will cease to be a direct debit arrangement and will instead be treated as a PayTo Payment Agreement (see Section J (PayTo) for more information about PayTo and Migrated DDRs).

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

This section applies if you arrange for automatic payments to be made out of your account. Automatic payments are not available on all accounts. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which they are available.

Types of automatic payments

53.1. If you give us authority, we can have regular payments made automatically out of your account on pre-set dates, advised by you. This type of payment is called a "direct debit". A direct debit is when a company, organisation or fund, sends direct debits to your account according to an authority which you need to set up through the company, organisation or fund receiving the money, allowing us to make these payments.

54. Arranging an automatic payment

54.1. The biller will supply you with a Direct Debit Request Service Agreement for you to complete and sign to provide them with this authority.

54.2. You must give us the information we require to enable us to make an automatic payment. This information may include the BSB and account numbers, and account name of the accounts from and to which payments are to be made. You must check that all information you give to us is correct (including, but not limited to, the BSB and the account number). We do not check, and are not responsible for checking, that any information you give to us is correct, including whether the BSB and account numbers correspond to the account name which you advise us. You are liable for any payment we carry out in accordance with your instructions.

55. Timing of the automatic payment

55.1. The details regarding timing of the payment will be outlined in the Direct Debit Request Service Agreement your biller has supplied to you.

55.2. You must ensure that you have sufficient cleared funds available in your account from which a payment will be made, to enable that payment to be made. If the payment date falls on a day other than a business day, those funds must be available by 10am (AEST/AEDT) on the previous day.

55.3. If you have insufficient funds in your account, any direct debits may be returned unpaid (dishonoured) to the originating third party.

55.4. A fee may be debited to your account in these circumstances. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

55.5. If you have insufficient funds in your account on three consecutive payment due dates, the authority will be cancelled and you will be notified via the Up app.

55.6. Subject to these conditions, when you instruct us to make a payment to an account held with another financial institution, we will endeavour to make that payment to the BSB and account number you advise us. If you give us instructions to make a payment on a business day after 10am (AEST/AEDT) on that business day, we may process that payment the following business day.

56. Liability

56.1. To the extent permitted by law and subject to any other provisions of these terms and conditions, we are not liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the automatic payment facility or any delay, omission or failure in respect of any payment. Without limitation, this includes, if you request us to make a payment to an account held with another financial institution:

any delay or failure to make a payment which results in a technical failure in the system we use to make a payment from your account with us to another financial institution; and
any omission, delay or failure on the part of the other financial institution in processing that payment.

56.2. If we debit or credit your account under an automatic payment arrangement we are not acting as your agent or the agent of another person. We are not liable for any loss or damage to you from us not acting as you require.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-i_.txt ===

Section I: Pay Anyone Service

Current and historical versions of the Section I: Pay Anyone Service section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Monday, 29 May 2023
Monday, 21 November 2022
Saturday, 31 July 2021
Monday, 10 August 2020
Thursday, 12 September 2019
Tuesday, 20 August 2019
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

58. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

59. Using the Pay Anyone Service

59.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

59.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

59.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

59.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

59.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

60. Payments

60.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. Limits will be advised in-app.

60.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

60.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

60.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 64).

60.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately unless we enforce a delay (such as described in 60.8), in which case the amount will not be debited until that delay has elapsed.

60.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

60.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will generally be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

60.8. We may delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer (including an Osko Payment) for up to 24 hours when you are transferring to a payee account you have not made a Pay Anyone transfer to previously or where the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer is greater than the amount of Pay Anyone transfers you have made to the account previously. We may also delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer as described in clause 9.3.

60.9. In relation to transactions to or from the account, you authorise Up to disclose and collect information (including personal information) to and from other financial institutions, to the extent Up considers this reasonably necessary.

61. If a transfer amount is incorrect

61.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
62. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

62.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

63. Limit reductions

63.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

64. Cut-off times

64.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

64.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

65. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

65.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 61 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 66.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

65.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

65.3. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

66. Mistaken Internet Payments

66.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

66.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

66.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

66.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

66.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

66.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

66.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 66.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

66.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us on telephone 1300 002 258 from 9:00am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

66.9 If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 66.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

66.9. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

66.10. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayments Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

67. Incorrect Account Number

67.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

67.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

67.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

68. PayIDs

68.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

68.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

68.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

68.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

68.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

68.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

68.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service;
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID and.
third parties such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, accessing your PayID information for the purposes of creating and sending PayTo Payment Agreement creation requests to us to seek your authorisation and for the purposes of sending PayTo Payment requests, in connection with an authorised Payment Agreement, to us for processing from your Account.

68.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

68.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

68.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

68.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 68.17 below).

68.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

68.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

68.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

68.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

68.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

68.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

68.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

68.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

68.20. To the maximum extent permitted by law, we are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

We do not exclude any liability to you for loss or damage to you arising directly from the fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct of us, our employees or agents or a receiver appointed by us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

68.21. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Published Monday, 29 May 2023

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

57. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

58. Using the Pay Anyone Service

58.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

58.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

58.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

58.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

58.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

59. Payments

59.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. Limits will be advised in-app.

59.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

59.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

59.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 63).

59.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately unless we enforce a delay (such as described in 59.8), in which case the amount will not be debited until that delay has elapsed.

59.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

59.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will generally be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

59.8. We may delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer (including an Osko Payment) for up to 24 hours when you are transferring to a payee account you have not made a Pay Anyone transfer to previously or where the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer is greater than the amount of Pay Anyone transfers you have made to the account previously. We may also delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer as described in clause 9.3.

59.9. In relation to transactions to or from the account, you authorise Up to disclose and collect information (including personal information) to and from other financial institutions, to the extent Up considers this reasonably necessary.

60. If a transfer amount is incorrect

60.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
61. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

61.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

62. Limit reductions

62.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

63. Cut-off times

63.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

63.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

64. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

64.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 60 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 65.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

64.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

64.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

64.4. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65. Mistaken Internet Payments

65.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

65.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

65.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

65.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

65.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

65.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

65.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 65.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

65.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us on telephone 1300 002 258 from 9:00am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

65.9 If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 65.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

65.9. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65.10. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayment Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

66. Incorrect Account Number

66.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

66.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

66.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

67. PayIDs

67.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

67.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

67.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

67.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

67.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service; and
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID.

67.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

67.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

67.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

67.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 67.16 below).

67.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

67.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

67.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

67.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

67.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

67.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

67.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

67.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

67.20. We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

67.21. You indemnify us against, and will be liable to us for, any direct or indirect loss, damage, charge, expense, fee or claim we may suffer or incur in respect of any PayID that is created and linked to your account or your use or attempted use of such a PayID. We may debit any such loss, damage or cost to any account you hold with us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

67.22. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Published Monday, 21 November 2022

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

57. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

58. Using the Pay Anyone Service

58.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

58.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

58.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

58.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

58.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

59. Payments

59.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. The default Pay Anyone daily limit is $30,000.

59.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

59.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

59.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 63).

59.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately unless we enforce a delay (such as described in 59.8), in which case the amount will not be debited until that delay has elapsed.

59.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

59.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will generally be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

59.8. We may delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer (including an Osko Payment) for up to 24 hours when you are transferring to a payee account you have not made a Pay Anyone transfer to previously or where the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer is greater than the amount of Pay Anyone transfers you have made to the account previously. We may also delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer as described in clause 9.3.

59.9. In relation to transactions to or from the account, you authorise Up to disclose and collect information (including personal information) to and from other financial institutions, to the extent Up considers this reasonably necessary.

60. If a transfer amount is incorrect

60.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
61. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

61.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

62. Limit reductions

62.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

63. Cut-off times

63.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

63.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

64. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

64.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 60 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 65.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

64.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

64.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

64.4. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65. Mistaken Internet Payments

65.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

65.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

65.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

65.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

65.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

65.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

65.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 65.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

65.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us on telephone 1300 002 258 from 9:00am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

65.9 If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 65.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

65.9. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65.10. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayment Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

66. Incorrect Account Number

66.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

66.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

66.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

67. PayIDs

67.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

67.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

67.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

67.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

67.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service; and
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID.

67.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

67.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

67.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

67.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 67.16 below).

67.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

67.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

67.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

67.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

67.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

67.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

67.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

67.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

67.20. We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

67.21. You indemnify us against, and will be liable to us for, any direct or indirect loss, damage, charge, expense, fee or claim we may suffer or incur in respect of any PayID that is created and linked to your account or your use or attempted use of such a PayID. We may debit any such loss, damage or cost to any account you hold with us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

67.22. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Published Saturday, 31 July 2021

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

57. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

58. Using the Pay Anyone Service

58.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

58.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

58.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

58.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

58.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

59. Payments

59.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. The default Pay Anyone daily limit is $30,000.

59.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

59.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

59.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 63).

59.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately unless we enforce a delay (such as described in 59.8), in which case the amount will not be debited until that delay has elapsed.

59.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

59.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will generally be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

59.8. We may delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer (including an Osko Payment) for up to 24 hours when you are transferring to a payee account you have not made a Pay Anyone transfer to previously or where the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer is greater than the amount of Pay Anyone transfers you have made to the account previously. We may also delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer as described in clause 9.3.

59.9. In relation to transactions to or from the account, you authorise Up to disclose and collect information (including personal information) to and from other financial institutions, to the extent Up considers this reasonably necessary.

60. If a transfer amount is incorrect

60.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
61. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

61.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

62. Limit reductions

62.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

63. Cut-off times

63.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

63.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

64. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

64.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 60 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 65.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

64.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

64.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

64.4. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65. Mistaken Internet Payments

65.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

65.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

65.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

65.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

65.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

65.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

65.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 65.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

65.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us on telephone 1300 002 258 from 8:30am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

65.9 If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 65.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

65.9. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65.10. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayment Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

66. Incorrect Account Number

66.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

66.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

66.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

67. PayIDs

67.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

67.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

67.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

67.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

67.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service; and
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID.

67.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

67.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

67.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

67.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 67.16 below).

67.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

67.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

67.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

67.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

67.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

67.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

67.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

67.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

67.20. We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

67.21. You indemnify us against, and will be liable to us for, any direct or indirect loss, damage, charge, expense, fee or claim we may suffer or incur in respect of any PayID that is created and linked to your account or your use or attempted use of such a PayID. We may debit any such loss, damage or cost to any account you hold with us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

67.22. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Published Monday, 10 August 2020

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

57. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

58. Using the Pay Anyone Service

58.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

58.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

58.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

58.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

58.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

59. Payments

59.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. The default Pay Anyone daily limit is $30,000.

59.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

59.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

59.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 63).

59.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately unless we enforce a delay (such as described in 59.8), in which case the amount will not be debited until that delay has elapsed.

59.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

59.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will generally be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

59.8. We may delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer (including an Osko Payment) for up to 24 hours when you are transferring to a payee account you have not made a Pay Anyone transfer to previously or where the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer is greater than the amount of Pay Anyone transfers you have made to the account previously. We may also delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer as described in clause 9.3.

59.9. In relation to transactions to or from the account, you authorise Up to disclose and collect information (including personal information) to and from other financial institutions, to the extent Up considers this reasonably necessary.

60. If a transfer amount is incorrect

60.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
61. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

61.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

62. Limit reductions

62.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

63. Cut-off times

63.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

63.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

64. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

64.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 60 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 65.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

64.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

64.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

64.4. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65. Mistaken Internet Payments

65.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

65.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

65.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

65.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

65.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

65.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

65.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 65.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

65.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us at the Customer Advocate Office on telephone 1300 002 258 from 8:30am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

65.9. If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 65.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

65.10. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65.11. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayment Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

66. Incorrect Account Number

66.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

66.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

66.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

67. PayIDs

67.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

67.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

67.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

67.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

67.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service; and
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID.

67.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

67.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

67.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

67.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 67.16 below).

67.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

67.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

67.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

67.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

67.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

67.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

67.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

67.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

67.20. We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

67.21. You indemnify us against, and will be liable to us for, any direct or indirect loss, damage, charge, expense, fee or claim we may suffer or incur in respect of any PayID that is created and linked to your account or your use or attempted use of such a PayID. We may debit any such loss, damage or cost to any account you hold with us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

67.22. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Published Thursday, 12 September 2019

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

57. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

58. Using the Pay Anyone Service

58.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

58.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

58.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

58.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

58.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

59. Payments

59.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. The default Pay Anyone daily limit is $30,000.

59.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

59.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

59.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 63).

59.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately.

59.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

59.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will generally be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

59.8. We may delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer (including an Osko Payment) for up to 24 hours when you are transferring to a payee account you have not made a Pay Anyone transfer to previously or where the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer is greater than the amount of Pay Anyone transfers you have made to the account previously. We may also delay processing a Pay Anyone transfer as described in clause 9.3.

60. If a transfer amount is incorrect

60.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
61. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

61.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

62. Limit reductions

62.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

63. Cut-off times

63.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

63.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

64. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

64.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 60 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 65.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

64.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

64.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

64.4. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65. Mistaken Internet Payments

65.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

65.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

65.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

65.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

65.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

65.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

65.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 65.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

65.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us at the Customer Advocate Office on telephone 1300 002 258 from 8:30am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

65.9. If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 65.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

65.10. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65.11. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayment Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

66. Incorrect Account Number

66.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

66.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

66.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

67. PayIDs

67.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

67.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

67.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

67.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

67.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service; and
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID.

67.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

67.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

67.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

67.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 67.16 below).

67.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

67.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

67.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

67.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

67.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

67.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

67.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

67.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

67.20. We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

67.21. You indemnify us against, and will be liable to us for, any direct or indirect loss, damage, charge, expense, fee or claim we may suffer or incur in respect of any PayID that is created and linked to your account or your use or attempted use of such a PayID. We may debit any such loss, damage or cost to any account you hold with us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

67.22. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Published Tuesday, 20 August 2019

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

57. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

58. Using the Pay Anyone Service

58.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

58.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

58.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

58.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

58.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

59. Payments

59.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. The default Pay Anyone daily limit is $5,000.

59.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

59.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

59.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 63).

59.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately.

59.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

59.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

59.8. Delays may occur in processing Osko Payments.

60. If a transfer amount is incorrect

60.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
61. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

61.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

62. Limit reductions

62.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

63. Cut-off times

63.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

63.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

64. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

64.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 60 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 65.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

64.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

64.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

64.4. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65. Mistaken Internet Payments

65.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

65.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

65.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

65.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

65.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

65.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

65.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 65.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

65.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us at the Customer Advocate Office on telephone 1300 002 258 from 8:30am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

65.9. If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 65.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

65.10. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65.11. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayment Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

66. Incorrect Account Number

66.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

66.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

66.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

67. PayIDs

67.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

67.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent.

67.3. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up, and may disclose it to other Up customers.

Creating a PayID

67.4. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

67.5. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.6. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.7. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service; and
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID.

67.8. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

67.9. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

67.10. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

67.11. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 67.16 below).

67.12. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

67.13. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

67.14. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

67.15. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

67.16. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

67.17. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

67.18. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

67.19. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

67.20. We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

67.21. You indemnify us against, and will be liable to us for, any direct or indirect loss, damage, charge, expense, fee or claim we may suffer or incur in respect of any PayID that is created and linked to your account or your use or attempted use of such a PayID. We may debit any such loss, damage or cost to any account you hold with us.

Sending to Up PayIDs

67.22. When receiving a payment from another Up customer, we will reveal their Up-generated PayID to you. This will allow you to make a payment back to that PayID. This feature is only available between Up customers and does not apply to accounts from other institutions. Payments sent using this PayID are covered by the same terms as any other PayID payment.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

This section applies if you use the Pay Anyone Service. The Key Features Table indicates the accounts for which this is available.

57. About the Pay Anyone Service

The Pay Anyone Service is an online service that allows you to transfer funds directly to accounts at financial institutions within Australia. The transfer may be a once only transfer (either immediate or future date) or you can arrange regular reoccurring transfers.

58. Using the Pay Anyone Service

58.1. When you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer, you must provide us with the following information:

the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer;
the correct account number of the person or business to whom you wish to transfer funds;
the correct BSB of the financial institution at which the account to whom you wish to transfer funds is held or a PayID created and linked to the account;
a reference;
the amount of the Pay Anyone transfer; and
when you want the transfer made.

58.2. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to effect a Pay Anyone transfer if you do not give us all of the above information or give us inaccurate information.

58.3. You authorise us to debit the nominated account you specify with the amount of that Pay Anyone transfer(s) you instruct us to make.

Warning: Some banks do not cross check the account number with the account name, which may lead to your payment being placed into the wrong account, if you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. You must ensure that the BSB and account number you give us are correct. We will not be liable for any loss as a result of you entering the wrong BSB or account number.

58.4. Pay Anyone transfers may be processed as a Direct Entry Payment or, once the NPP has been launched, as an Osko Payment.

58.5. We may decide whether to process Pay Anyone transfers you request from your accounts as Direct Entry Payments or Osko Payments in our absolute discretion and you must not assume that Osko Payments will always be available or offered to you.

59. Payments

59.1. We may impose restrictions on the accounts from which a Pay Anyone transfer may be made or impose limits on the amount of Pay Anyone transfers. The default Pay Anyone daily limit is $5,000.

59.2. We may decide not to make any payment if there are insufficient funds available for withdrawal in the specified nominated account to be debited on the due payment date.

59.3. We may decide not to process a future-dated Pay Anyone transfer if you have instructed us to make the transfer using a PayID and, at the relevant transfer time, we become aware that the details registered for that PayID in the NPP Addressing Service have substantially changed since you instructed us or, in the case of recurring payments, since the previous transfer.

59.4. A delay may occur in the processing of a Pay Anyone transfer where:

there is a public or bank holiday on the day you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer; or
you instruct us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a day which is not a business day or after our payment cut-off time on a business day (for payment cut-off times see clause 63).

59.5. Regardless of when an immediate Pay Anyone transfer is made, the account from which you want us to debit the Pay Anyone transfer will be debited immediately.

59.6. Pay Anyone transfers are irrevocable and once you have told us to make a Pay Anyone transfer it cannot be stopped or cancelled. You must therefore take care to ensure all information you give us in relation to a Pay Anyone transfer request is correct and complete.

59.7. Where we process a Pay Anyone transfer as an Osko Payment, the transfer will be processed, cleared and settled on a 24/7 near real-time basis.

59.8. Delays may occur in processing Osko Payments.

60. If a transfer amount is incorrect

60.1. You must ensure that the information you give us in relation to each Pay Anyone transfer is correct. If you discover that we have been instructed to make a transfer for an incorrect amount:

if the amount transferred is greater than the required amount, contact the person or business to whom the funds were transferred to obtain a refund for the excess;
if the amount transferred is less than the required amount, you can simply make a further Pay Anyone transfer for the difference.
61. Suspension of the Pay Anyone Service

61.1. We may suspend your right to use the Pay Anyone service at any time if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or improper manner or we believe doing so is reasonably necessary in order for us to ensure the security or integrity of the Up app, the Pay Anyone service or your account.

62. Limit reductions

62.1. We may reduce your Pay Anyone daily limit if you do not use any or part of your limit over a period of time. We will notify you in writing at least 20 days before taking such action, where we are required to do so under the ePayments Code.

63. Cut-off times

63.1. If you instruct us to transfer funds before the time specified below, the transfer will be processed overnight on that business day. Subject to the financial institution to whom the funds are being transferred, the payment will in most cases settle on the next business day.

Cut-off times:

Monday -- Friday: 7.00pm (AEST/AEDT)

Saturday, Sunday and Public Holidays: processed next business day.

63.2. Pay Anyone transfers may take longer to be credited if you tell us to make a Pay Anyone transfer on a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday or if the recipient's financial institution does not process the payment as soon as they receive it.

64. Liability for mistaken payments, unauthorised transactions and fraud

64.1. You must notify us immediately:

if you become aware that you may have made a mistake (except in relation to the Pay Anyone transfer amount - see clause 60 above or paying funds to an Unintended Recipient -- see clause 65.1), when instructing us to make a Pay Anyone transfer;
if you did not authorise the Pay Anyone transfer from your account;
if you believe a Pay Anyone transfer was not processed in accordance with your instructions (including delays);
if you think you have been fraudulently induced to make a Pay Anyone transfer.

64.2. We will attempt to rectify any such matters in relation to your Pay Anyone transfer in the way described in this clause. If a Pay Anyone transfer is made on your account without your knowledge or consent, liability for that unauthorised Pay Anyone transfer will be determined in accordance with clause 44. Otherwise, except as set out in this clause 64 we will not be liable for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service.

64.3. You indemnify us against any loss or damage we may suffer due to any claims, suits, demands or action of any kind brought against us arising directly or indirectly because you:

did not observe any of your obligations under the terms and conditions in this section; or
acted negligently or fraudulently in connection with the other terms and conditions.

64.4. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone Service other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65. Mistaken Internet Payments

65.1. In this clause, the following words have these specific meanings:

"Mistaken Internet Payment" means a 'Mistaken Internet Payment' under the ePayments Code or a 'Mistaken Payment' under the NPP Regulations.

Note: This relates to payments you make to an Unintended Recipient using the Pay Anyone Service where you enter an incorrect BSB or account number. It does not include Misdirected Payment under the NPP Regulations or payments made using BPAY.

"Other ADI" means the authorised deposit-taking institution (as defined in the Banking Act 1959 Cth) of the Unintended Recipient.

"Unintended Recipient" means the recipient of funds as a result of a Mistaken Internet Payment.

65.2. This clause applies where you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment covered by the ePayments Code and the Other ADI subscribes to the ePayment Code or which was processed through NPP.

65.3. If you have made a Mistaken Internet Payment, you must notify us as soon as possible. We will investigate the matter and inform you (in writing) of the outcome within 30 business days from the date you notified us.

65.4. Without the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment to us within 7 months;
we decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred;
the Other ADI decides that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; and
the Unintended Recipient has sufficient credit available in their account to retrieve the funds.

Note: If you report the Mistaken Internet Payment after 10 days but before 7 months, the Unintended Recipient will be given an opportunity to establish that they are entitled to the funds.

65.5. With the consent of the Unintended Recipient, it may be possible to retrieve the funds from your Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred but the Unintended Recipient does not have sufficient credit in their account;
both we and the Other ADI decide that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred, but you reported the Mistaken Internet Payment after seven months; or
the Other ADI decides (in their discretion) to seek the Unintended Recipient's consent to return the funds even if the Other ADI is not satisfied that a Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred.

65.6. If the Other ADI withdraws funds from the Unintended Recipient's account, they will return the funds to us. We will then return the funds to you as soon as possible.

65.7. You will be responsible for any of your losses following a Mistaken Internet Payment if:

both we and the Other ADI decide that no Mistaken Internet Payment has occurred; or
in certain circumstances, the Unintended Recipient is able to establish that they are entitled to the funds; or
the consent as described in clause 65.5 is not obtained from the Unintended Recipient.

65.8. You can complain to us about the way your report of a Mistaken Internet Payment is dealt with by contacting us at the Customer Advocate Office on telephone 1300 002 258 from 8:30am -- 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday.

65.9. If you are not satisfied with the outcome under clause 65.8, you may contact our external dispute resolution scheme. External dispute resolution is a free service established to provide you with an independent mechanism to resolve specific complaints. Our external dispute resolution provider is the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact the AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority

GPO Box 3

Melbourne VIC 3001

Phone: 1800 931 678

Website: www.afca.org.au

Email: info@afca.org.au

65.10. We are not liable for any consequential loss or damage you suffer as a result of using the Pay Anyone facility other than any loss or damage which is due to our negligence or breach of any condition or warranty implied by law which cannot be excluded, restricted or modified at all or only to a limited extent.

65.11. Where you are the recipient of a Mistaken Internet Payment, you authorise us to withdraw the funds relating to that Mistaken Internet Payment from your account if we are required under the ePayment Code to recover those funds from you and return them to the payer's authorised deposit taking institution.

66. Incorrect Account Number

66.1. When we process your Pay Anyone transfer, we process the Pay Anyone transfer based on the BSB and account number you provide.

WARNING: We do not cross check the account number with the account name or reference you provide us.

66.2. If your Pay Anyone transfer is to another financial institution, your Pay Anyone transfer may also be processed on the BSB and account number provided as not all financial institutions cross check account numbers and names.

Example 1: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 012 Account Number 123465, the payment will be made into account number 123465 instead of Mr Citizen's account.

Example 2: You want to send a Pay Anyone transfer to Mr Citizen's account, being BSB 001 012 Account Number 123456 however you type in BSB 001 021 Account Number 123456, the payment will be made into account number 123456 at BSB 001 021 instead of BSB 001 012.

66.3. It is vital that you include the correct account number and BSB.

67. PayIDs

67.1. In our discretion, we may allow you to create a PayID for your account so that NPP Payments can be made to your account using the PayID instead of the BSB and account number.

67.2. Creating a PayID using your personal details (eg. mobile phone number or email address) is optional. We will not create a PayID for your account using your personal details without your consent. We will issue you with an Up generated PayID as part of holding an account with Up.

Creating a PayID

67.3. You may register and unregister a PayID for your account in the Up application.

67.4. You may only create a PayID for your account if:

we are able to verify your identity in a manner that is satisfactory to us;
you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
the PayID is not likely to be misleading as to who the accountholder for the account is; and
creating the PayID will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.5. We may refuse to allow you to create a PayID for any reason, including where we have not been able to satisfactorily verify your identity or we are not satisfied that you own or are authorised to use the PayID you are trying to create or we are not satisfied that creating the PayID will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any person.

67.6. By creating a PayID for your account:

you assure us that you own or are authorised to use the PayID;
you agree to immediately notify us if any of the information you provide to us when creating the PayID changes or becomes incorrect or misleading;
you acknowledge that the PayID and information relating to you and the account the PayID is linked to (including the account name, BSB and account number) will be registered in the NPP Addressing Service operated by NPP Australia Limited (not us); and
you consent to:
us disclosing your personal information and the other information you provide to us to NPP Australia Limited as necessary to create the PayID in the NPP Addressing Service; and
third parties, such as NPP Australia Limited and other financial institutions that connect to or use the NPP, collecting, storing, using and disclosing that information (including your name and account details) in accordance with the NPP Regulations and NPP Procedures and as necessary for purposes related to NPP Payments to you or your account. Without limiting the last sentence, you acknowledge that the account name associated with your account, or a summary of it, may be disclosed to any person that initiates a NPP Payment using the PayID.

67.7. The types of PayIDs we allow you to create and link to your account may differ depending on your circumstances and the type of account you have.

67.8. More than one PayID can be created and linked to an account provided that each PayID is unique.

67.9. When creating a PayID we will automatically provision a PayID name that is substantially representative of the account.

Transferring a PayID from or to another account

67.10. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can transfer a PayID created and linked to one account with us or another financial institution to another account with us or another financial institution. However, you cannot transfer a PayID while it is locked (see 67.16 below).

67.11. If you want to transfer a PayID you have created for one account with us to another account with us or another financial institution, you can do so by contacting us and requesting that we transfer the PayID. We will action your request within one business day unless we agree another time period with you. A transfer of your PayID to another institution is completed by that institution.

67.12. If you want to transfer a PayID that has been created and linked to an account at another institution to an account with us, you must first contact the other financial institution to tell them you want to transfer the PayID and then create the PayID with us.

Updating, locking and closing a PayID

67.13. With the exception of PayIDs generated by Up (eg. @up.me addresses) you can request that we update or close a PayID that has been created and linked to your account at any time by contacting us. Generated PayIDs cannot be cancelled or transferred.

67.14. You must promptly notify us if, at any time, you cease to own or be authorised to use a PayID created and linked to your account or if any of the information you give us when the PayID is created changes, and request that we update or close the PayID.

67.15. We will action a request from you to update or close a PayID within one business day unless we agree another time period with you.

67.16. We may, if we have reasonable grounds for doing so, lock or close a PayID created and linked to your account at any time without prior notice to you. Without limitation, this includes where we suspect you created the PayID or are using the PayID in connection with fraudulent or illegal activity.

67.17. If your PayID is locked, you can request that it be unlocked by contacting us. If a PayID is closed it must be re-created before it can be used again.

PayID disputes

67.18. If a PayID cannot be created for your account because it has already been created and linked to another account by someone else we can lodge a dispute. However, there is no guarantee that the dispute will be resolved in your favour or result in you being able to create the PayID for your account. We will promptly notify you of the outcome of the dispute.

Liability for PayIDs

67.19. We are not liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of:

a PayID being created and linked to your account or you using or attempting to use a PayID that has been created and linked to your account;
us refusing to create a PayID or any delay in a PayID being created and linked to your account;
us locking or closing a PayID that has been created and linked to your account; or
any failure or malfunction of the NPP (including the NPP Address Service) or any of our systems or procedures that use or connect with the NPP.

67.20. You indemnify us against, and will be liable to us for, any direct or indirect loss, damage, charge, expense, fee or claim we may suffer or incur in respect of any PayID that is created and linked to your account or your use or attempted use of such a PayID. We may debit any such loss, damage or cost to any account you hold with us.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-j_.txt ===

Section J: PayTo

Current and historical versions of the Section J: PayTo section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Friday, 10 November 2023
Thursday, 9 November 2023
Published Friday, 10 November 2023

69. This ‘PayTo’ section applies in relation to your use or attempted use of PayTo and any Payment Agreement that is created for an account, and related PayTo Payments, if PayTo is available for your account. The Key Features Tables indicate the accounts for which PayTo is available.

PayTo allows payers to approve Payment Agreements with Merchants or Payment Initiators who offer PayTo as a payment option.

70. PayTo definitions

In this section and clause 68 (PayIDs), the following definitions apply:

Defined term	Definitions
Migrated DDR	A Payment Agreement created by a Merchant or Payment Initiator to process payments under an existing direct debit arrangement as PayTo Payments instead of through the direct debit system – see the ‘Migration of Direct Debit arrangements’ clause below.
Mandate Management Service (MMS)	The Mandate Management Service being a central, secure database of Payment Agreements operated by NPP Australia Limited.
Merchant	A merchant with which you have, or would like to have, a Payment Agreement.
NPP	The New Payments Platform operated by or on behalf of NPP Australia Limited.
NPP Payment	A payment cleared and settled via the NPP.
PayTo Agreement or Payment Agreement	An agreement created by an approved Merchant or Payment Initiator in the Mandate Management Service by which you authorise us to make payments from your account or a Migrated DDR.
Payment Initiator	An approved payment service provider who, whether acting on behalf of you or a Merchant, is authorised by you to initiate payments from your account.
PayTo	The NPP functionality which enables us to process NPP Payments from your account in accordance with and on the terms set out in a Payment Agreement.
PayTo Payment	An NPP Payment we make pursuant to a Payment Agreement.
71. Creating a Payment Agreement

You can set up a Payment Agreement with a Merchant or Payment Initiator that offers PayTo as a payment option by providing the Merchant or Payment Initiator with a PayID you have created for your account (see clause 68 ‘PayID’ above) or the BSB and account number for your account. You are responsible for ensuring that the PayID or BSB and account number you provide for the purpose of establishing a Payment Agreement are correct. Any personal information or data you provide to the Merchant or Payment Initiator will be subject to the privacy policy and terms and conditions of the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

If you agree to setup a Payment Agreement with a Merchant or Payment Initiator, they will create the Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service through their financial institution or payments processor and we will be notified.

After we receive notification that a Payment Agreement has been created for your account, we will notify you with the details of the Payment Agreement and ask you to confirm your approval of the Payment Agreement. You may approve or decline any Payment Agreement in your discretion and we will record whether you approved or declined the Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service.

If a Payment Agreement required your confirmation within a timeframe stipulated by the Merchant or Payment Initiator, and you do not provide confirmation within that timeframe, the Payment Agreement may be withdrawn by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

If you tell us that you approve a Payment Agreement it will be active once we record your approval in the Mandate Management Service. Payment requests may be made by a Merchant or Payment Initiator immediately after you have approved a Payment Agreement so do not approve a Payment Agreement unless you are sure all the details are correct.

If you think the payment amount, frequency or any other detail presented in a Payment Agreement is incorrect, you should decline the Payment Agreement and contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator to have them resubmit a new Payment Agreement with the correct details.

71.1 By approving a Payment Agreement, you:

authorise us to collect, use and store your name and account details and other details about you and the Payment Agreement from and in the Mandate Management Service; and

acknowledge that these details may be disclosed to NPP Australia Limited (who operates the Mandate Management Service) and the financial institution or payment processor for the Merchant or Payment Initiator for the purposes of creating payment instructions and constructing NPP Payment messages, enabling us to make PayTo Payments from your account and for related purposes; and

consent to us, other financial institutions and payment processors, NPP Australia Limited, Merchants and Payment Initiators using and disclosing such of your personal information as is contained in a Payment Agreement record in the Mandate Management Service as contemplated by the NPP regulations and procedures.

72. Payments

By authorising a Payment Agreement you instruct us to make PayTo Payments from your account in accordance with the Payment Agreement each time a PayTo Payment is requested by the Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to the Payment Agreement or their financial institution or payment processor.

It is your responsibility to ensure you have sufficient funds in your account to process each PayTo Payment. We are not required to make a PayTo Payment if there are insufficient cleared funds in your account at the time the PayTo Payment is requested.

72.1 Amending a Payment Agreement

We are not able to amend any other terms of the Payment Agreement including the details of the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

A Payment Agreement can be amended from time to time by the Merchant or Payment Initiator. If a Merchant or Payment Initiator seeks to amend a Payment Agreement, we will notify you of the amendment and request that you approve or decline the amendment. We will record whether you approved or declined the Payment Agreement amendment request in the Mandate Management Service.

If you think the payment amount, frequency or any other detail presented in a Payment Agreement amendment request we provide to you for approval is incorrect, you should decline the amendment request and contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator to have them resubmit a new amendment request with the correct details. We cannot change the details in an amendment request.

If you do not respond to a Payment Agreement amendment request within 5 calendar days it will expire and it will be treated as being declined by you.

We will record whether you approve or decline a Payment Agreement amendment request in the Mandate Management Service.

If you approve a Payment Agreement amendment request, the amendment will be effective once we record your approval in the Mandate Management Service.

If you decline a Payment Agreement amendment request, the Payment Agreement will not be affected by the amendment request and will continue as if the amendment request had not been submitted.

72.2 Pausing or resuming a Payment Agreement

You can pause a Payment Agreement, or resume a paused Payment Agreement, in the Up app or by contacting us. We will promptly act on your instruction to pause or resume a Payment Agreement by updating the Mandate Management Service. The Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to the Payment Agreement will be notified each time you pause or resume a Payment Agreement.

A Payment Agreement may also be paused or resumed by the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator. We will notify you each time a Payment Agreement is paused or resumed by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We may also pause any Payment Agreement that has been setup using a PayID if the PayID is locked or closed. If we do, we will resume the Payment Agreement once the PayID is unlocked or we obtain instructions from you that otherwise enables the Payment Agreement to be resumed (unless the Payment Agreement has since been cancelled). We will notify you if we pause or resume a Payment Agreement and the Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with the Payment Agreement will also be notified each time we pause or resume a Payment Agreement.

While a Payment Agreement is paused, we will not process any PayTo Payment requests we receive pursuant to the Payment Agreement. PayTo Payments will resume once a paused Payment Agreement is resumed.

Warning! Although pausing a Payment Agreement will stop related PayTo Payments being made from your account, doing so may breach the terms of your agreement with the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator or you may be required to make payment in some other way. We suggest that you ensure you understand the consequences of pausing a Payment Agreement before you do so and, if necessary, contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss that you or any other person suffers as a result of a Payment Agreement being paused by you or the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

72.3 Transferring a Payment Agreement

It is not currently possible to transfer a Payment Agreement between accounts with us or another financial institution. If you want to change a Payment Agreement, including to change it from one account to another, you will need to contact the Merchant or Payment Initiator through whom the Payment Agreement was set up.

72.4 Cancelling a Payment Agreement

You can cancel a Payment Agreement at any time in the Up app or by contacting us. We will promptly act on your instruction to cancel a Payment Agreement by updating the Mandate Management Service. The Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with your Payment Agreement will then be notified that you have cancelled the Payment Agreement.

A Payment Agreement may also be cancelled by the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator. We will notify you if a Payment Agreement is cancelled by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We may also cancel any Payment Agreement that has been setup using a PayID if the PayID is closed, unless we agree otherwise with you. We will notify you if we cancel a Payment Agreement and the Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with the Payment Agreement will also be notified that the Payment Agreement has been cancelled.

We will not process any PayTo Payment requests we receive from the Merchant or Payment Initiator pursuant to a Payment Agreement after it has been cancelled.

Warning! Although cancelling a Payment Agreement will stop related PayTo Payments being made from your account, doing so may breach the terms of your agreement with the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator or you may be required to make payment in some other way. We suggest that you ensure you understand the consequences of cancelling a Payment Agreement before you do so and, if necessary, contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss that you or any other person suffers as a result of a Payment Agreement being cancelled by you or the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

72.5 Migration of Direct Debit arrangements

If you have an existing direct debit arrangement with a Merchant or a Payment Initiator, the Merchant or Payment Initiator may choose to create a Payment Agreement for the direct debit arrangement to process payments as PayTo Payments instead of through the direct debit system.

If a Merchant or a Payment Initiator does this, you will receive notice from them that your future payments will be migrated to PayTo and you will then have the option of telling the Merchant or Payment Initiator that you do not consent.

If you do not advise the Merchant or Payment Initiator that you do not consent to your direct debit arrangement being migrated to PayTo, the Merchant or Payment Initiator may create a Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service that reflects the terms of your direct debit service agreement and the Payment Agreement will be deemed to have been approved by you. We will not seek your approval of a Payment Agreement that relates to a migrated direct debit arrangement.

Once the Payment Agreement has been created by the Merchant or Payment Initiator, you and the Merchant or Payment Initiator will be able to amend, pause and resume and cancel a Payment Agreement that has been established to migrate a direct debit arrangement, and you will be able to transfer the Payment Agreement, in the same way as any other Payment Agreement as set out above.

By permitting the creation of a Payment Agreement for a direct debit arrangement (by not contacting the Merchant or Payment Initiator and telling them that you do not consent), you:

authorise us to collect, use and store your name and account details and other details about you and the Payment Agreement from and in the Mandate Management Service;

acknowledge that these details may be disclosed to NPP Australia (who operates the Mandate Management Service) and the financial institution or payment processor for the Merchant or Payment Initiator for the purposes of creating payment instructions and constructing NPP Payment messages, enabling us to make PayTo payments from your account and for related purposes; and

consent to us, other financial institutions and payment processors, NPP Australia Limited, Merchants and Payment Initiators using and disclosing such of your personal information as is contained in a Payment Agreement record in the Mandate Management Service as contemplated by the NPP regulations and procedures.

73. General PayTo obligations

We will accurately reflect all information you provide to us in connection with a Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service.

You must:

ensure that all information and data you provide to us or to any Merchant or Payment Initiator that is authorised to use PayTo is accurate and up-to-date;

not use PayTo to send threatening, harassing or offensive messages to a Merchant, Payment Initiator or any other person;

where we allow you to provide a payment description or reference in connection with a Payment Agreement you must ensure that it does not contain, refer to or link to:

any swearing, profanity or offensive, discriminatory, threatening or abusive content;
any information that is confidential or must be kept secret;
sensitive personal information of any person (including information or an opinion about a person’s racial or ethnic origin, political opinions or membership of a political association, philosophical beliefs, membership of a professional or trade association, membership of a trade union, sexual orientation or practices, criminal record and health information);
anything which infringes the intellectual property rights of any person; or
anything which is illegal or seeks to promote illegal activity;

comply with all applicable laws in connection with your use of PayTo;

promptly consider, action and respond to any Payment Agreement creation request, amendment request or other notification we send you (if you use the Bendigo Bank app, we recommend that you allow notifications from it on your device to ensure that you promptly receive and are able to respond to such requests and notifications in a timely way);

immediately notify us if you no longer hold or have authority to operate the account from which payments under a Payment Agreement you have approved or permitted to be created are being or are to be made;

promptly notify us if you receive a Payment Agreement creation request or amendment request or become aware of PayTo Payments being processed from your account that you are not expecting, or experience any other activities that appear suspicious or erroneous;

promptly notify us if you become aware of a PayTo Payment being made from your account that is not permitted under the terms of your Payment Agreement or that was not authorised by you; and

comply with any direction we give you where doing so is necessary for us to comply with our obligations relating to PayTo including under the NPP regulations and procedures.

You are responsible for complying with the terms of any agreement that you have with the Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to a Payment Agreement (including any payment and notice giving obligations or termination requirements) and for dealing with the Merchant or Payment Initiator in relation to any concerns or complaints you have in relation to any goods or services relating to the Payment Agreement.

From time to time, we may request that you confirm that one or more of your Payment Agreements are accurate and up-to-date. You must promptly action and respond to any such request. If you fail to do so, we may pause the relevant Payment Agreement(s).

We may monitor your Payment Agreements for misuse, fraud and security reasons. You acknowledge and consent to us pausing or cancelling all or some of your Payment Agreements if we reasonably suspect misuse, fraud or security issues. We will promptly notify you if we pause or cancel a Payment Agreement for these purposes but only if we are legally permitted to do so. You must promptly respond to any notification that you receive from us regarding the pausing or cancellation of a Payment Agreement for misuse, fraud or for any other reason.

If you notify us of a PayTo Payment being made from your account that is not permitted under the terms of your Payment Agreement or that was not authorised by you and submit a claim, we will respond to your claim within 10 business days and, if the claim is founded, we will refund the PayTo Payment to your account.

74. Liability for PayTo

To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss suffered as a result of:

processing payments under a Payment Agreement which you have approved or are deemed to have approved;

you failing to properly consider or promptly respond to any Payment Agreement creation request or amendment request we send you;

you or a Merchant or Payment Initiator pausing, resuming or cancelling a Payment Agreement; or

any delay or failure in respect of a Payment Agreement or a PayTo Payment being processed due to the unavailability or failure of the Mandate Management Service,

except to the extent such loss is caused by us failing to comply with our obligations relating to PayTo under these Terms and Conditions.

Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

69. This ‘PayTo’ section applies in relation to your use or attempted use of PayTo and any Payment Agreement that is created for an account, and related PayTo Payments, if PayTo is available for your account. The Key Features Tables indicate the accounts for which PayTo is available.

PayTo allows payers to approve Payment Agreements with Merchants or Payment Initiators who offer PayTo as a payment option.

70. PayTo definitions

In this section and clause 68 (PayIDs), the following definitions apply:

Defined term	Definitions
Migrated DDR	A Payment Agreement created by a Merchant or Payment Initiator to process payments under an existing direct debit arrangement as PayTo Payments instead of through the direct debit system – see the ‘Migration of Direct Debit arrangements’ clause below.
Mandate Management Service (MMS)	The Mandate Management Service being a central, secure database of Payment Agreements operated by NPP Australia Limited.
Merchant	A merchant with which you have, or would like to have, a Payment Agreement.
NPP	The New Payments Platform operated by or on behalf of NPP Australia Limited.
NPP Payment	A payment cleared and settled via the NPP.
PayTo Agreement or Payment Agreement	An agreement created by an approved Merchant or Payment Initiator in the Mandate Management Service by which you authorise us to make payments from your account or a Migrated DDR.
Payment Initiator	An approved payment service provider who, whether acting on behalf of you or a Merchant, is authorised by you to initiate payments from your account.
PayTo	The NPP functionality which enables us to process NPP Payments from your account in accordance with and on the terms set out in a Payment Agreement.
PayTo Payment	An NPP Payment we make pursuant to a Payment Agreement.
71. Creating a Payment Agreement

You can set up a Payment Agreement with a Merchant or Payment Initiator that offers PayTo as a payment option by providing the Merchant or Payment Initiator with a PayID you have created for your account (see clause 68 ‘PayID’ above) or the BSB and account number for your account. You are responsible for ensuring that the PayID or BSB and account number you provide for the purpose of establishing a Payment Agreement are correct. Any personal information or data you provide to the Merchant or Payment Initiator will be subject to the privacy policy and terms and conditions of the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

If you agree to setup a Payment Agreement with a Merchant or Payment Initiator, they will create the Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service through their financial institution or payments processor and we will be notified.

After we receive notification that a Payment Agreement has been created for your account, we will notify you with the details of the Payment Agreement and ask you to confirm your approval of the Payment Agreement. You may approve or decline any Payment Agreement in your discretion and we will record whether you approved or declined the Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service.

If a Payment Agreement required your confirmation within a timeframe stipulated by the Merchant or Payment Initiator, and you do not provide confirmation within that timeframe, the Payment Agreement may be withdrawn by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

If you tell us that you approve a Payment Agreement it will be active once we record your approval in the Mandate Management Service. Payment requests may be made by a Merchant or Payment Initiator immediately after you have approved a Payment Agreement so do not approve a Payment Agreement unless you are sure all the details are correct.

If you think the payment amount, frequency or any other detail presented in a Payment Agreement is incorrect, you should decline the Payment Agreement and contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator to have them resubmit a new Payment Agreement with the correct details.

71.1 By approving a Payment Agreement, you:

authorise us to collect, use and store your name and account details and other details about you and the Payment Agreement from and in the Mandate Management Service; and

acknowledge that these details may be disclosed to NPP Australia Limited (who operates the Mandate Management Service) and the financial institution or payment processor for the Merchant or Payment Initiator for the purposes of creating payment instructions and constructing NPP Payment messages, enabling us to make PayTo Payments from your account and for related purposes; and

consent to us, other financial institutions and payment processors, NPP Australia Limited, Merchants and Payment Initiators using and disclosing such of your personal information as is contained in a Payment Agreement record in the Mandate Management Service as contemplated by the NPP regulations and procedures.

72. Payments

By authorising a Payment Agreement you instruct us to make PayTo Payments from your account in accordance with the Payment Agreement each time a PayTo Payment is requested by the Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to the Payment Agreement or their financial institution or payment processor.

It is your responsibility to ensure you have sufficient funds in your account to process each PayTo Payment. We are not required to make a PayTo Payment if there are insufficient cleared funds in your account at the time the PayTo Payment is requested.

72.1 Amending a Payment Agreement

We are not able to amend any other terms of the Payment Agreement including the details of the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

A Payment Agreement can be amended from time to time by the Merchant or Payment Initiator. If a Merchant or Payment Initiator seeks to amend a Payment Agreement, we will notify you of the amendment and request that you approve or decline the amendment. We will record whether you approved or declined the Payment Agreement amendment request in the Mandate Management Service.

If you think the payment amount, frequency or any other detail presented in a Payment Agreement amendment request we provide to you for approval is incorrect, you should decline the amendment request and contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator to have them resubmit a new amendment request with the correct details. We cannot change the details in an amendment request.

If you do not respond to a Payment Agreement amendment request within 5 calendar days it will expire and it will be treated as being declined by you.

We will record whether you approve or decline a Payment Agreement amendment request in the Mandate Management Service.

If you approve a Payment Agreement amendment request, the amendment will be effective once we record your approval in the Mandate Management Service.

If you decline a Payment Agreement amendment request, the Payment Agreement will not be affected by the amendment request and will continue as if the amendment request had not been submitted.

72.2 Pausing or resuming a Payment Agreement

You can pause a Payment Agreement, or resume a paused Payment Agreement, in Bendigo e-banking or by contacting us. We will promptly act on your instruction to pause or resume a Payment Agreement by updating the Mandate Management Service. The Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to the Payment Agreement will be notified each time you pause or resume a Payment Agreement.

A Payment Agreement may also be paused or resumed by the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator. We will notify you each time a Payment Agreement is paused or resumed by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We may also pause any Payment Agreement that has been setup using a PayID if the PayID is locked or closed. If we do, we will resume the Payment Agreement once the PayID is unlocked or we obtain instructions from you that otherwise enables the Payment Agreement to be resumed (unless the Payment Agreement has since been cancelled). We will notify you if we pause or resume a Payment Agreement and the Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with the Payment Agreement will also be notified each time we pause or resume a Payment Agreement.

While a Payment Agreement is paused, we will not process any PayTo Payment requests we receive pursuant to the Payment Agreement. PayTo Payments will resume once a paused Payment Agreement is resumed.

Warning! Although pausing a Payment Agreement will stop related PayTo Payments being made from your account, doing so may breach the terms of your agreement with the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator or you may be required to make payment in some other way. We suggest that you ensure you understand the consequences of pausing a Payment Agreement before you do so and, if necessary, contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss that you or any other person suffers as a result of a Payment Agreement being paused by you or the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

72.3 Transferring a Payment Agreement

It is not currently possible to transfer a Payment Agreement between accounts with us or another financial institution. If you want to change a Payment Agreement, including to change it from one account to another, you will need to contact the Merchant or Payment Initiator through whom the Payment Agreement was set up.

72.4 Cancelling a Payment Agreement

You can cancel a Payment Agreement at any time in Bendigo e-banking or by contacting us. We will promptly act on your instruction to cancel a Payment Agreement by updating the Mandate Management Service. The Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with your Payment Agreement will then be notified that you have cancelled the Payment Agreement.

A Payment Agreement may also be cancelled by the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator. We will notify you if a Payment Agreement is cancelled by the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We may also cancel any Payment Agreement that has been setup using a PayID if the PayID is closed, unless we agree otherwise with you. We will notify you if we cancel a Payment Agreement and the Merchant or Payment Initiator associated with the Payment Agreement will also be notified that the Payment Agreement has been cancelled.

We will not process any PayTo Payment requests we receive from the Merchant or Payment Initiator pursuant to a Payment Agreement after it has been cancelled.

Warning! Although cancelling a Payment Agreement will stop related PayTo Payments being made from your account, doing so may breach the terms of your agreement with the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator or you may be required to make payment in some other way. We suggest that you ensure you understand the consequences of cancelling a Payment Agreement before you do so and, if necessary, contact the relevant Merchant or Payment Initiator.

We will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss that you or any other person suffers as a result of a Payment Agreement being cancelled by you or the Merchant or Payment Initiator.

72.5 Migration of Direct Debit arrangements

If you have an existing direct debit arrangement with a Merchant or a Payment Initiator, the Merchant or Payment Initiator may choose to create a Payment Agreement for the direct debit arrangement to process payments as PayTo Payments instead of through the direct debit system.

If a Merchant or a Payment Initiator does this, you will receive notice from them that your future payments will be migrated to PayTo and you will then have the option of telling the Merchant or Payment Initiator that you do not consent.

If you do not advise the Merchant or Payment Initiator that you do not consent to your direct debit arrangement being migrated to PayTo, the Merchant or Payment Initiator may create a Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service that reflects the terms of your direct debit service agreement and the Payment Agreement will be deemed to have been approved by you. We will not seek your approval of a Payment Agreement that relates to a migrated direct debit arrangement.

Once the Payment Agreement has been created by the Merchant or Payment Initiator, you and the Merchant or Payment Initiator will be able to amend, pause and resume and cancel a Payment Agreement that has been established to migrate a direct debit arrangement, and you will be able to transfer the Payment Agreement, in the same way as any other Payment Agreement as set out above.

By permitting the creation of a Payment Agreement for a direct debit arrangement (by not contacting the Merchant or Payment Initiator and telling them that you do not consent), you:

authorise us to collect, use and store your name and account details and other details about you and the Payment Agreement from and in the Mandate Management Service;

acknowledge that these details may be disclosed to NPP Australia (who operates the Mandate Management Service) and the financial institution or payment processor for the Merchant or Payment Initiator for the purposes of creating payment instructions and constructing NPP Payment messages, enabling us to make PayTo payments from your account and for related purposes; and

consent to us, other financial institutions and payment processors, NPP Australia Limited, Merchants and Payment Initiators using and disclosing such of your personal information as is contained in a Payment Agreement record in the Mandate Management Service as contemplated by the NPP regulations and procedures.

73. General PayTo obligations

We will accurately reflect all information you provide to us in connection with a Payment Agreement in the Mandate Management Service.

You must:

ensure that all information and data you provide to us or to any Merchant or Payment Initiator that is authorised to use PayTo is accurate and up-to-date;

not use PayTo to send threatening, harassing or offensive messages to a Merchant, Payment Initiator or any other person;

where we allow you to provide a payment description or reference in connection with a Payment Agreement you must ensure that it does not contain, refer to or link to:

any swearing, profanity or offensive, discriminatory, threatening or abusive content;
any information that is confidential or must be kept secret;
sensitive personal information of any person (including information or an opinion about a person’s racial or ethnic origin, political opinions or membership of a political association, philosophical beliefs, membership of a professional or trade association, membership of a trade union, sexual orientation or practices, criminal record and health information);
anything which infringes the intellectual property rights of any person; or
anything which is illegal or seeks to promote illegal activity;

comply with all applicable laws in connection with your use of PayTo;

promptly consider, action and respond to any Payment Agreement creation request, amendment request or other notification we send you (if you use the Bendigo Bank app, we recommend that you allow notifications from it on your device to ensure that you promptly receive and are able to respond to such requests and notifications in a timely way);

immediately notify us if you no longer hold or have authority to operate the account from which payments under a Payment Agreement you have approved or permitted to be created are being or are to be made;

promptly notify us if you receive a Payment Agreement creation request or amendment request or become aware of PayTo Payments being processed from your account that you are not expecting, or experience any other activities that appear suspicious or erroneous;

promptly notify us if you become aware of a PayTo Payment being made from your account that is not permitted under the terms of your Payment Agreement or that was not authorised by you; and

comply with any direction we give you where doing so is necessary for us to comply with our obligations relating to PayTo including under the NPP regulations and procedures.

You are responsible for complying with the terms of any agreement that you have with the Merchant or Payment Initiator who is a party to a Payment Agreement (including any payment and notice giving obligations or termination requirements) and for dealing with the Merchant or Payment Initiator in relation to any concerns or complaints you have in relation to any goods or services relating to the Payment Agreement.

From time to time, we may request that you confirm that one or more of your Payment Agreements are accurate and up-to-date. You must promptly action and respond to any such request. If you fail to do so, we may pause the relevant Payment Agreement(s).

We may monitor your Payment Agreements for misuse, fraud and security reasons. You acknowledge and consent to us pausing or cancelling all or some of your Payment Agreements if we reasonably suspect misuse, fraud or security issues. We will promptly notify you if we pause or cancel a Payment Agreement for these purposes but only if we are legally permitted to do so. You must promptly respond to any notification that you receive from us regarding the pausing or cancellation of a Payment Agreement for misuse, fraud or for any other reason.

If you notify us of a PayTo Payment being made from your account that is not permitted under the terms of your Payment Agreement or that was not authorised by you and submit a claim, we will respond to your claim within 10 business days and, if the claim is founded, we will refund the PayTo Payment to your account.

74. Liability for PayTo

To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you or any other person for any loss suffered as a result of:

processing payments under a Payment Agreement which you have approved or are deemed to have approved;

you failing to properly consider or promptly respond to any Payment Agreement creation request or amendment request we send you;

you or a Merchant or Payment Initiator pausing, resuming or cancelling a Payment Agreement; or

any delay or failure in respect of a Payment Agreement or a PayTo Payment being processed due to the unavailability or failure of the Mandate Management Service,

except to the extent such loss is caused by us failing to comply with our obligations relating to PayTo under these Terms and Conditions.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-k_.txt ===

Section K: TransferWise (now known as “Wise”)

Current and historical versions of the Section K: TransferWise (now known as “Wise”) section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Thursday, 25 February 2021
Monday, 30 November 2020
Monday, 10 August 2020
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023
75. About the Wise Integration

75.1. This section applies if you create an account with TransferWise Australia Pty Ltd (“Wise”) ACN 616 463 855 AFSL 513764 through the Up app or you link to or access an existing Wise account through the Up app.

75.2.  Wise provides international payment services. If you have a Wise account, you can link to and access your Wise account and instruct Wise to make international payments on your behalf through the Up app, rather than accessing your Wise account in other ways (for example, through Wise’s website).

75.3. Wise, and not us, is responsible for providing the international transfer service directly to you as its customer. The Wise terms and conditions that apply between Wise and you will apply in relation to any access to a Wise account and any Wise transfers instructed through the Up app.

75.4. If you create a Wise account through the Up app, you are contracting directly with Wise, and not us, in relation to your Wise account. Any international instructions you provide through the Up app are provided by you to Wise.

75.5. Under our arrangements with Wise, we act simply as a service provider to Wise to enable the integration between your Wise account and the Up app and, to enable you to deal with Wise, and create and/or access your Wise account conveniently through the Up App. It is Wise that receives and processes any international transfer instruction given by you through the Up App, from your Wise account.

76. Creating or linking your Wise account

76.1. If you create a Wise account with Wise through the Up app, you consent and agree to us disclosing your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) to Wise for the purpose of them creating your Wise account and providing its services to you.

76.2. If you link to and access an existing Wise account through the Up app, you consent to us and Wise disclosing to each other your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) for the purposes of linking and providing you with access to your Wise account through the Up app.

76.3. If you have access to a Wise account through the Up app (whether you created it through the Up app or not), you consent and agree to us providing your updated details (including your name, contact details and identification details) to Wise whenever you update your details with us or we otherwise become aware that your details have changed.

76.4. Collection, use and handling of your personal information by Wise is subject to Wise’s terms and conditions and privacy policy.

77. Using Wise through the Up app

77.1. When you make a Wise transfer through the Up App:

you are instructing Wise to process the transfer and must provide all the relevant information requested as directed through the Up App; and
you authorise us to debit the amount necessary to complete the transfer from your Up account and to pay it to Wise on your behalf.

77.2. You must ensure that there are sufficient available funds in your nominated account to process the debit relating to any transfer instruction you give to Wise through the Up app and that the information you provide in relation to the transfer is correct.

77.3. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to transfer any funds to Wise on your behalf if there are not sufficient available funds in your nominated account or we consider, acting reasonably, that not processing the transfer is necessary to avoid us or you suffering loss or to avoid a breach of any law.

77.4 You must notify us immediately if you did not authorise a Wise transfer related to a debit to your Up account.

77.5. Your liability and rights in relation to your Wise account and any Wise transfers you instruct through the Up app is determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract between you and Wise.

77.6. In seeking customer support related to your Wise transactions completed through the Up app, you acknowledge and agree that:

You may contact Up directly, using the Talk to Us feature in the Up app, for customer support and assistance with creating or viewing Wise transactions within the Up app.
Up is not able to directly assist you with issues relating to your Wise account, outside of the Up/Wise integration.

77.7. To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of creating a Wise account, linking to or accessing a Wise account or instructing any Wise transfers through the Up app.

77.8. If Wise returns any funds to us we will return the funds to your Up account.

78. Suspension of the Wise integration

78.1. We may suspend your access to your Wise account through the Up app at any time for any reason, including if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or illegal manner. Us doing so will not affect your rights and obligations in respect of Wise or your Wise account, other than that you will be unable to access the Wise account through the Up app.

78.2. We are not required to notify you before we do this but will notify you within a reasonable period after we do so. We may also notify Wise that we have done so.

Published Thursday, 25 February 2021
68. About the Wise Integration

68.1. This section applies if you create an account with TransferWise Australia Pty Ltd (“Wise”) ACN 616 463 855 AFSL 513764 through the Up app or you link to or access an existing Wise account through the Up app.

68.2.  Wise provides international payment services. If you have a Wise account, you can link to and access your Wise account and instruct Wise to make international payments on your behalf through the Up app, rather than accessing your Wise account in other ways (for example, through Wise’s website).

68.3. Wise, and not us, is responsible for providing the international transfer service directly to you as its customer. The Wise terms and conditions that apply between Wise and you will apply in relation to any access to a Wise account and any Wise transfers instructed through the Up app.

68.4. If you create a Wise account through the Up app, you are contracting directly with Wise, and not us, in relation to your Wise account. Any international instructions you provide through the Up app are provided by you to Wise.

68.5. Under our arrangements with Wise, we act simply as a service provider to Wise to enable the integration between your Wise account and the Up app and, to enable you to deal with Wise, and create and/or access your Wise account conveniently through the Up App. It is Wise that receives and processes any international transfer instruction given by you through the Up App, from your Wise account.

69. Creating or linking your Wise account

69.1. If you create a Wise account with Wise through the Up app, you consent and agree to us disclosing your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) to Wise for the purpose of them creating your Wise account and providing its services to you.

69.2. If you link to and access an existing Wise account through the Up app, you consent to us and Wise disclosing to each other your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) for the purposes of linking and providing you with access to your Wise account through the Up app.

69.3. If you have access to a Wise account through the Up app (whether you created it through the Up app or not), you consent and agree to us providing your updated details (including your name, contact details and identification details) to Wise whenever you update your details with us or we otherwise become aware that your details have changed.

69.4. Collection, use and handling of your personal information by Wise is subject to Wise’s terms and conditions and privacy policy.

70. Using Wise through the Up app

70.1. When you make a Wise transfer through the Up App:

you are instructing Wise to process the transfer and must provide all the relevant information requested as directed through the Up App; and
you authorise us to debit the amount necessary to complete the transfer from your Up account and to pay it to Wise on your behalf.

70.2. You must ensure that there are sufficient available funds in your nominated account to process the debit relating to any transfer instruction you give to Wise through the Up app and that the information you provide in relation to the transfer is correct.

70.3. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to transfer any funds to Wise on your behalf if there are not sufficient available funds in your nominated account or we consider, acting reasonably, that not processing the transfer is necessary to avoid us or you suffering loss or to avoid a breach of any law.

70.4 You must notify us immediately if you did not authorise a Wise transfer related to a debit to your Up account.

70.5. Your liability and rights in relation to your Wise account and any Wise transfers you instruct through the Up app is determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract between you and Wise.

70.6. In seeking customer support related to your Wise transactions completed through the Up app, you acknowledge and agree that:

You may contact Up directly, using the Talk to Us feature in the Up app, for customer support and assistance with creating or viewing Wise transactions within the Up app.
Up is not able to directly assist you with issues relating to your Wise account, outside of the Up/Wise integration.

70.7. To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of creating a Wise account, linking to or accessing a Wise account or instructing any Wise transfers through the Up app.

70.8. If Wise returns any funds to us we will return the funds to your Up account.

71. Suspension of the Wise integration

71.1. We may suspend your access to your Wise account through the Up app at any time for any reason, including if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or illegal manner. Us doing so will not affect your rights and obligations in respect of Wise or your Wise account, other than that you will be unable to access the Wise account through the Up app.

71.2. We are not required to notify you before we do this but will notify you within a reasonable period after we do so. We may also notify Wise that we have done so.

Published Monday, 30 November 2020
68. About the TransferWise Integration

68.1. This section applies if you create an account with TransferWise Australia Pty Ltd ACN 616 463 855 AFSL 513764 (“TransferWise” or "Wise") through the Up app or you link to or access an existing TransferWise account through the Up app.

68.2.  TransferWise provides international payment services. If you have a TransferWise account, you can link to and access your TransferWise account and instruct TransferWise to make international payments on your behalf through the Up app, rather than accessing your TransferWise account in other ways (for example, through TransferWise’s website).

68.3. TransferWise, and not us, is responsible for providing the international transfer service directly to you as its customer. The TransferWise terms and conditions that apply between TransferWise and you will apply in relation to any access to a TransferWise account and any TransferWise transfers instructed through the Up app.

68.4. If you create a TransferWise account through the Up app, you are contracting directly with TransferWise, and not us, in relation to your TransferWise account. Any international instructions you provide through the Up app are provided by you to TransferWise.

68.5. Under our arrangements with TransferWise, we act simply as a service provider to TransferWise to enable the integration between your TransferWise account and the Up app and, to enable you to deal with TransferWise, and create and/or access your TransferWise account conveniently through the Up App. It is TransferWise that receives and processes any international transfer instruction given by you through the Up App, from your TransferWise account.

69. Creating or linking your TransferWise account

69.1. If you create a TransferWise account with TransferWise through the Up app, you consent and agree to us disclosing your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) to TransferWise for the purpose of them creating your TransferWise account and providing its services to you.

69.2. If you link to and access an existing TransferWise account through the Up app, you consent to us and TransferWise disclosing to each other your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) for the purposes of linking and providing you with access to your TransferWise account through the Up app.

69.3. If you have access to a TransferWise account through the Up app (whether you created it through the Up app or not), you consent and agree to us providing your updated details (including your name, contact details and identification details) to TransferWise whenever you update your details with us or we otherwise become aware that your details have changed.

69.4. Collection, use and handling of your personal information by TransferWise is subject to TransferWise’s terms and conditions and privacy policy.

70. Using TransferWise through the Up app

70.1. When you make a TransferWise transfer through the Up App:

you are instructing TransferWise to process the transfer and must provide all the relevant information requested as directed through the Up App; and
you authorise us to debit the amount necessary to complete the transfer from your Up account and to pay it to TransferWise on your behalf.

70.2. You must ensure that there are sufficient available funds in your nominated account to process the debit relating to any transfer instruction you give to TransferWise through the Up app and that the information you provide in relation to the transfer is correct.

70.3. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to transfer any funds to TransferWise on your behalf if there are not sufficient available funds in your nominated account or we consider, acting reasonably, that not processing the transfer is necessary to avoid us or you suffering loss or to avoid a breach of any law.

70.4 You must notify us immediately if you did not authorise a TransferWise transfer related to a debit to your Up account.

70.5. Your liability and rights in relation to your TransferWise account and any TransferWise transfers you instruct through the Up app is determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract between you and TransferWise.

70.6. In seeking customer support related to your Transferwise transactions completed through the Up app, you acknowledge and agree that:

You may contact Up directly, using the Talk to Us feature in the Up app, for customer support and assistance with creating or viewing Transferwise transactions within the Up app.
Up is not able to directly assist you with issues relating to your TransferWise account, outside of the Up/Transferwise integration.

70.7. To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of creating a TransferWise account, linking to or accessing a TransferWise account or instructing any TransferWise transfers through the Up app.

70.8. If TransferWise returns any funds to us we will return the funds to your Up account.

71. Suspension of the TransferWise integration

71.1. We may suspend your access to your TransferWise account through the Up app at any time for any reason, including if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or illegal manner. Us doing so will not affect your rights and obligations in respect of TransferWise or your TransferWise account, other than that you will be unable to access the TransferWise account through the Up app.

71.2. We are not required to notify you before we do this but will notify you within a reasonable period after we do so. We may also notify TransferWise that we have done so.

Published Monday, 10 August 2020
68. About the TransferWise Integration

68.1. This section applies if you create an account with TransferWise Ltd ARBN 168 331 191 AFSL 686295 (“TransferWise”) through the Up app or you link to or access an existing TransferWise account through the Up app.

68.2.  TransferWise provides international payment services. If you have a TransferWise account, you can link to and access your TransferWise account and instruct TransferWise to make international payments on your behalf through the Up app, rather than accessing your TransferWise account in other ways (for example, through TransferWise’s website).

68.3. TransferWise, and not us, is responsible for providing the international transfer service directly to you as its customer. The TransferWise terms and conditions that apply between TransferWise and you will apply in relation to any access to a TransferWise account and any TransferWise transfers instructed through the Up app.

68.4. If you create a TransferWise account through the Up app, you are contracting directly with TransferWise, and not us, in relation to your TransferWise account. Any international instructions you provide through the Up app are provided by you to TransferWise.

68.5. Under our arrangements with TransferWise, we act simply as a service provider to TransferWise to enable the integration between your TransferWise account and the Up app and, to enable you to deal with TransferWise, and create and/or access your TransferWise account conveniently through the Up App. It is TransferWise that receives and processes any international transfer instruction given by you through the Up App, from your TransferWise account.

69. Creating or linking your TransferWise account

69.1. If you create a TransferWise account with TransferWise through the Up app, you consent and agree to us disclosing your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) to TransferWise for the purpose of them creating your TransferWise account and providing its services to you.

69.2. If you link to and access an existing TransferWise account through the Up app, you consent to us and TransferWise disclosing to each other your personal information (including your name, contact details and identification details) for the purposes of linking and providing you with access to your TransferWise account through the Up app.

69.3. If you have access to a TransferWise account through the Up app (whether you created it through the Up app or not), you consent and agree to us providing your updated details (including your name, contact details and identification details) to TransferWise whenever you update your details with us or we otherwise become aware that your details have changed.

69.4. Collection, use and handling of your personal information by TransferWise is subject to TransferWise’s terms and conditions and privacy policy.

70. Using TransferWise through the Up app

70.1. When you make a TransferWise transfer through the Up App:

you are instructing TransferWise to process the transfer and must provide all the relevant information requested as directed through the Up App; and
you authorise us to debit the amount necessary to complete the transfer from your Up account and to pay it to TransferWise on your behalf.

70.2. You must ensure that there are sufficient available funds in your nominated account to process the debit relating to any transfer instruction you give to TransferWise through the Up app and that the information you provide in relation to the transfer is correct.

70.3. You acknowledge and accept that we are not obliged to transfer any funds to TransferWise on your behalf if there are not sufficient available funds in your nominated account or we consider, acting reasonably, that not processing the transfer is necessary to avoid us or you suffering loss or to avoid a breach of any law.

70.4 You must notify us immediately if you did not authorise a TransferWise transfer related to a debit to your Up account.

70.5. Your liability and rights in relation to your TransferWise account and any TransferWise transfers you instruct through the Up app is determined in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract between you and TransferWise.

70.6. In seeking customer support related to your Transferwise transactions completed through the Up app, you acknowledge and agree that:

You may contact Up directly, using the Talk to Us feature in the Up app, for customer support and assistance with creating or viewing Transferwise transactions within the Up app.
Up is not able to directly assist you with issues relating to your TransferWise account, outside of the Up/Transferwise integration.

70.7. To the maximum extent permitted by law, we will not be liable to you for any loss or damage you suffer as a result of creating a TransferWise account, linking to or accessing a TransferWise account or instructing any TransferWise transfers through the Up app.

70.8. If TransferWise returns any funds to us we will return the funds to your Up account.

71. Suspension of the TransferWise integration

71.1. We may suspend your access to your TransferWise account through the Up app at any time for any reason, including if you are suspected of acting in a fraudulent or illegal manner. Us doing so will not affect your rights and obligations in respect of TransferWise or your TransferWise account, other than that you will be unable to access the TransferWise account through the Up app.

71.2. We are not required to notify you before we do this but will notify you within a reasonable period after we do so. We may also notify TransferWise that we have done so.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-l_.txt ===

Section L: 2Up Joint Accounts

Current and historical versions of the Section L: 2Up Joint Accounts section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Thursday, 9 November 2023
Monday, 18 July 2022
Saturday, 31 July 2021
Monday, 17 May 2021
Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

79.1. This clause applies if we agree to establish a “2Up” joint account arrangement for you and another person, or any request that we do so.

79.2. A 2Up may have a maximum of two persons only and you may only be a party to one 2Up at a time.

79.3. We may suspend or close the operation of a 2Up or any associated 2Up account if we believe that a person associated with the 2Up has or has attempted to be a party to a 2Up or open a 2Up account in breach of clause 79.2 above or has otherwise not complied with this clause 79. If we close a 2Up account pursuant to this clause we will do so in accordance with clause 15.3 of these terms and conditions.

Establishing a 2Up

79.4. To establish and maintain a 2Up, each person who is to be a party to the 2Up must be an existing Up customer and each person must have and maintain separate individual Up accounts that are not 2Up accounts.

79.5. You and the other person who is to be a party to a 2Up with you must both request that we establish a 2Up or agree to being a party to the 2Up before we will agree to establish the 2Up.

79.6. By requesting that we establish a 2Up or agreeing to be a party to a 2Up, you agree and consent to 2Up accounts being opened, operated, suspended and closed as set out in these terms and conditions.

79.7. We may refuse to establish a 2Up in our discretion.

79.8. If we establish a 2Up, we will open a new joint Up Everyday Account in the name of you and the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you as joint account holders.

79.9. Each person who is a party to a 2Up may open joint Up Savers through the Up app in the names of the persons who are a party to the 2Up as joint account holders.

Understanding your 2Up account obligations

79.10. Your liability under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up is both joint and several with the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you. This means that each of you is liable both on your own and together for the whole of any debit balance on the 2Up, any amounts payable to us in respect of the 2Up account, and performance of all obligations under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up. You should carefully consider who you enter a 2Up with as you and that other person will be joint account holders and jointly and severally liable in respect of the 2Up account.

79.11. Each joint account holder on a 2Up account may transact on, authorise transactions on and give us instructions in relation to 2Up without the authority or consent of the other joint account holder. This means that any joint account holder can transfer money or make payments using the Up app or a card, or close the account, without the other’s consent.

79.12. However, at any time, any joint account holder may request that we restrict a 2Up account so that the account can only be operated on the joint instructions of all joint account holders, by contacting us (see our Contact details above). If we receive such a request in relation to 2Up, we will restrict the account as soon as reasonably practicable such that no transactions may be processed on the account, and the account cannot be closed, without the joint instructions of all joint account holders. This means that any cards linked to the account will not be able to be used to transact on the account and electronic payments through the Up app will not be able to be processed.

79.13. We may also restrict a 2Up account if:

we are notified of or otherwise become aware of any dispute between the joint account holders affecting the account;
we are notified or otherwise become aware of the bankruptcy of a joint account holder; or
we consider it to be necessary to prevent financial harm or abuse.

79.14. If we restrict a 2Up account, we may insist on joint written instructions being provided to us, in a form that is acceptable to us, as to how the account, or funds in the account, are to be dealt with in the future before we remove the restriction or reinstate access to the account.

79.15. You agree that each joint account holder acts as agent for the other and any notice or statement we give any joint account holder is taken to be a notice or statement given to all joint account holders, except where we are legally obliged to do otherwise.

79.16. You agree that each joint account holder may have access to information about a 2Up account or any associated 2Up account without the consent of the other joint account holder.

79.17. Each 2Up account is held jointly by the joint account holders. In the event of the death of any joint account holder, the 2Up account will be treated as the account of the surviving account holder only.

Closing your 2Up arrangement

79.18. You may request that we close a 2Up account only if all associated 2Up saver accounts have been closed. All associated joint Up saver accounts must be closed before your joint everyday account can be closed. If we have restricted a 2Up account so that it may not be transacted on or closed without the joint instructions of all joint account holders, you may be unable to close your 2Up until the joint instructions of all joint account holders has been received to close the relevant 2Up accounts.

Published Monday, 18 July 2022

72.1. This clause applies if we agree to establish a “2Up” joint account arrangement for you and another person, or any request that we do so.

72.2. A 2Up may have a maximum of two persons only and you may only be a party to one 2Up at a time.

72.3. We may suspend or close the operation of a 2Up or any associated 2Up account if we believe that a person associated with the 2Up has or has attempted to be a party to a 2Up or open a 2Up account in breach of clause 72.2 above or has otherwise not complied with this clause 72.3. If we close a 2Up account pursuant to this clause we will do so in accordance with clause 15.3 of these terms and conditions.

Establishing a 2Up

72.4. To establish and maintain a 2Up, each person who is to be a party to the 2Up must be an existing Up customer and each person must have and maintain separate individual Up accounts that are not 2Up accounts.

72.5. You and the other person who is to be a party to a 2Up with you must both request that we establish a 2Up or agree to being a party to the 2Up before we will agree to establish the 2Up.

72.6. By requesting that we establish a 2Up or agreeing to be a party to a 2Up, you agree and consent to 2Up accounts being opened, operated, suspended and closed as set out in these terms and conditions.

72.7. We may refuse to establish a 2Up in our discretion.

72.8. If we establish a 2Up, we will open a new joint Up Everyday Account in the name of you and the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you as joint account holders.

72.9. Each person who is a party to a 2Up may open joint Up Savers through the Up app in the names of the persons who are a party to the 2Up as joint account holders.

Understanding your 2Up account obligations

72.10. Your liability under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up is both joint and several with the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you. This means that each of you is liable both on your own and together for the whole of any debit balance on the 2Up, any amounts payable to us in respect of the 2Up account, and performance of all obligations under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up. You should carefully consider who you enter a 2Up with as you and that other person will be joint account holders and jointly and severally liable in respect of the 2Up account.

72.11. Each joint account holder on a 2Up account may transact on, authorise transactions on and give us instructions in relation to 2Up without the authority or consent of the other joint account holder. This means that any joint account holder can transfer money or make payments using the Up app or a card, or close the account, without the other’s consent.

72.12. However, at any time, any joint account holder may request that we restrict a 2Up account so that the account can only be operated on the joint instructions of all joint account holders, by contacting us (see our Contact details above). If we receive such a request in relation to 2Up, we will restrict the account as soon as reasonably practicable such that no transactions may be processed on the account, and the account cannot be closed, without the joint instructions of all joint account holders. This means that any cards linked to the account will not be able to be used to transact on the account and electronic payments through the Up app will not be able to be processed.

72.13. We may also restrict a 2Up account if:

we are notified of or otherwise become aware of any dispute between the joint account holders affecting the account;
we are notified or otherwise become aware of the bankruptcy of a joint account holder; or
we consider it to be necessary to prevent financial harm or abuse.

72.14. If we restrict a 2Up account, we may insist on joint written instructions being provided to us, in a form that is acceptable to us, as to how the account, or funds in the account, are to be dealt with in the future before we remove the restriction or reinstate access to the account.

72.15. You agree that each joint account holder acts as agent for the other and any notice or statement we give any joint account holder is taken to be a notice or statement given to all joint account holders, except where we are legally obliged to do otherwise.

72.16. You agree that each joint account holder may have access to information about a 2Up account or any associated 2Up account without the consent of the other joint account holder.

72.17. Each 2Up account is held jointly by the joint account holders. In the event of the death of any joint account holder, the 2Up account will be treated as the account of the surviving account holder only.

Closing your 2Up arrangement

72.18. You may request that we close a 2Up account only if all associated 2Up saver accounts have been closed and there are no current joint loan accounts associated with the 2Up. All associated joint Up saver accounts must be closed and all joint loans must be fully repaid before your joint everyday account can be closed. If we have restricted a 2Up account so that it may not be transacted on or closed without the joint instructions of all joint account holders, you may be unable to close your 2Up until the joint instructions of all joint account holders has been received to close the relevant 2Up accounts.

Published Saturday, 31 July 2021

72.1. This clause applies if we agree to establish a “2Up” joint account arrangement for you and another person, or any request that we do so.

72.2. A 2Up may have a maximum of two persons only and you may only be a party to one 2Up at a time.

72.3. We may suspend or close the operation of a 2Up or any associated 2Up account if we believe that a person associated with the 2Up has or has attempted to be a party to a 2Up or open a 2Up account in breach of clause 72.2 above or has otherwise not complied with this clause 72.3. If we close a 2Up account pursuant to this clause we will do so in accordance with clause 15.3 of these terms and conditions.

Establishing a 2Up

72.4. To establish and maintain a 2Up, each person who is to be a party to the 2Up must be an existing Up customer and each person must have and maintain separate individual Up accounts that are not 2Up accounts.

72.5. You and the other person who is to be a party to a 2Up with you must both request that we establish a 2Up or agree to being a party to the 2Up before we will agree to establish the 2Up.

72.6. By requesting that we establish a 2Up or agreeing to be a party to a 2Up, you agree and consent to 2Up accounts being opened, operated, suspended and closed as set out in these terms and conditions.

72.7. We may refuse to establish a 2Up in our discretion.

72.8. If we establish a 2Up, we will open a new joint Up Everyday Account in the name of you and the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you as joint account holders.

72.9. Each person who is a party to a 2Up may open joint Up Savers through the Up app in the names of the persons who are a party to the 2Up as joint account holders.

Understanding your 2Up account obligations

72.10. Your liability under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up is both joint and several with the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you. This means that each of you is liable both on your own and together for the whole of any debit balance on the 2Up, any amounts payable to us in respect of the 2Up account, and performance of all obligations under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up. You should carefully consider who you enter a 2Up with as you and that other person will be joint account holders and jointly and severally liable in respect of the 2Up account.

72.11. Each joint account holder on a 2Up account may transact on, authorise transactions on and give us instructions in relation to 2Up without the authority or consent of the other joint account holder. This means that any joint account holder can transfer money or make payments using the Up app or a card, or close the account, without the other’s consent.

72.12. However, at any time, any joint account holder may request that we restrict a 2Up account so that the account can only be operated on the joint instructions of all joint account holders, by contacting us (see our Contact details above). If we receive such a request in relation to 2Up, we will restrict the account as soon as reasonably practicable such that no transactions may be processed on the account, and the account cannot be closed, without the joint instructions of all joint account holders. This means that any cards linked to the account will not be able to be used to transact on the account and electronic payments through the Up app will not be able to be processed.

72.13. We may also restrict a 2Up account if:

we are notified of or otherwise become aware of any dispute between the joint account holders affecting the account;
we are notified or otherwise become aware of the bankruptcy of a joint account holder; or
we consider it to be necessary to prevent financial harm or abuse.

72.14. If we restrict a 2Up account, we may insist on joint written instructions being provided to us, in a form that is acceptable to us, as to how the account, or funds in the account, are to be dealt with in the future before we remove the restriction or reinstate access to the account.

72.15. You agree that each joint account holder acts as agent for the other and any notice or statement we give any joint account holder is taken to be a notice or statement given to all joint account holders, except where we are legally obliged to do otherwise.

72.16. You agree that each joint account holder may have access to information about a 2Up account or any associated 2Up account without the consent of the other joint account holder.

72.17. Each 2Up account is held jointly by the joint account holders. In the event of the death of any joint account holder, the 2Up account will be treated as the account of the surviving account holder only.

Closing your 2Up arrangement

72.18. You may request that we close a 2Up account only if all associated 2Up saver accounts have been closed. All associated joint Up saver accounts must be closed before your joint everyday account can be closed. If we have restricted a 2Up account so that it may not be transacted on or closed without the joint instructions of all joint account holders, you may be unable to close your 2Up until the joint instructions of all joint account holders has been received to close the relevant 2Up accounts.

Published Monday, 17 May 2021

72.1. This clause applies if we agree to establish a “2Up” joint account arrangement for you and another person, or any request that we do so.

72.2. A 2Up may have a maximum of two persons only and you may only be a party to one 2Up at a time.

72.3. We may suspend or close the operation of a 2Up or any associated 2Up account if we believe that a person associated with the 2Up has or has attempted to be a party to a 2Up or open a 2Up account in breach of clause 72.2 above or has otherwise not complied with this clause 72.3. If we close a 2Up account pursuant to this clause we will do so in accordance with clause 15.3 of these terms and conditions.

Establishing a 2Up

72.4. To establish and maintain a 2Up, each person who is to be a party to the 2Up must be an existing Up customer and each person must have and maintain separate individual Up accounts that are not 2Up accounts.

72.5. You and the other person who is to be a party to a 2Up with you must both request that we establish a 2Up or agree to being a party to the 2Up before we will agree to establish the 2Up.

72.6. By requesting that we establish a 2Up or agreeing to be a party to a 2Up, you agree and consent to 2Up accounts being opened, operated, suspended and closed as set out in these terms and conditions.

72.7. We may refuse to establish a 2Up in our discretion.

72.8. If we establish a 2Up, we will open a new joint Up Everyday Account in the name of you and the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you as joint account holders.

Understanding your 2Up account obligations

72.9. Your liability under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up is both joint and several with the other person who is a party to the 2Up with you. This means that each of you is liable both on your own and together for the whole of any debit balance on the 2Up, any amounts payable to us in respect of the 2Up account, and performance of all obligations under these terms and conditions in relation to 2Up. You should carefully consider who you enter a 2Up with as you and that other person will be joint account holders and jointly and severally liable in respect of the 2Up account.

72.10. Each joint account holder on a 2Up account may transact on, authorise transactions on and give us instructions in relation to 2Up without the authority or consent of the other joint account holder. This means that any joint account holder can transfer money or make payments using the Up app or a card, or close the account, without the other’s consent.

72.11. However, at any time, any joint account holder may request that we restrict a 2Up account so that the account can only be operated on the joint instructions of all joint account holders, by contacting us (see our Contact details above). If we receive such a request in relation to 2Up, we will restrict the account as soon as reasonably practicable such that no transactions may be processed on the account, and the account cannot be closed, without the joint instructions of all joint account holders. This means that any cards linked to the account will not be able to be used to transact on the account and electronic payments through the Up app will not be able to be processed.

72.12. We may also restrict a 2Up account if:

we are notified of or otherwise become aware of any dispute between the joint account holders affecting the account;
we are notified or otherwise become aware of the bankruptcy of a joint account holder; or
we consider it to be necessary to prevent financial harm or abuse.

72.13. If we restrict a 2Up account, we may insist on joint written instructions being provided to us, in a form that is acceptable to us, as to how the account, or funds in the account, are to be dealt with in the future before we remove the restriction or reinstate access to the account.

72.14. You agree that each joint account holder acts as agent for the other and any notice or statement we give any joint account holder is taken to be a notice or statement given to all joint account holders, except where we are legally obliged to do otherwise.

72.15. You agree that each joint account holder may have access to information about a 2Up account without the consent of the other joint account holder.

72.16. Each 2Up account is held jointly by the joint account holders. In the event of the death of any joint account holder, the 2Up account will be treated as the account of the surviving account holder only.

Closing your 2Up arrangement

72.17. You may request that we close a 2Up. If we have restricted a 2Up account so that it may not be transacted on or closed without the joint instructions of all joint account holders, you may be unable to close your 2Up until the joint instructions of all joint account holders has been received to close the relevant 2Up accounts.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== product-terms_section-m_.txt ===

Section M: Fees & Charges

Current and historical versions of the Section M: Fees & Charges section of the Up Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions.

Publication date:

Wednesday, 3 April 2024
Thursday, 9 November 2023
Tuesday, 13 June 2023
Monday, 15 May 2023
Friday, 14 April 2023
Monday, 6 January 2020
Monday, 11 November 2019
Friday, 31 May 2019
Published Wednesday, 3 April 2024

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal or Enquiry

When you make a withdrawal or enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: ATM operators may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. In Australia and many other countries, ATM providers must tell you if they're going to charge a fee, and the amount of the fee, and you have the option of proceeding with or cancelling the transaction or enquiry before the fee is incurred. However, in other parts of the world you won't always be notified that a fee applies or the amount of the fee. Any fees charged by an ATM provider will be debited to your account where you use their ATM, including in a country where the fees are not required to be notified to you before being incurred. We suggest reading up on your travel destination before you travel and, if in doubt, check the applicable fees with the ATM provider before using an ATM.

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

2Up Plastic Card

2Up cards can be ordered through the app for a one-off charge. Note: a digital debit card comes free with 2Up.

$10.00

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Note: Transfer of Australian dollars or foreign currency into any Bendigo and Adelaide Bank account may incur a handling or acceptance fee by the accepting bank and / or intermediary bank(s), (the amounts of which are not disclosed to us). These fees may be deducted from the total funds originally remitted.

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Published Thursday, 9 November 2023

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal or Enquiry

When you make a withdrawal or enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: ATM operators may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. In Australia and many other countries, ATM providers must tell you if they're going to charge a fee, and the amount of the fee, and you have the option of proceeding with or cancelling the transaction or enquiry before the fee is incurred. However, in other parts of the world you won't always be notified that a fee applies or the amount of the fee. Any fees charged by an ATM provider will be debited to your account where you use their ATM, including in a country where the fees are not required to be notified to you before being incurred. We suggest reading up on your travel destination before you travel and, if in doubt, check the applicable fees with the ATM provider before using an ATM.

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

2Up Plastic Card

2Up cards can be ordered through the app for a one-off charge. Note: a digital debit card comes free with 2Up.

$10.00

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Published Tuesday, 13 June 2023

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal or Enquiry

When you make a withdrawal or enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: ATM operators may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. In Australia and many other countries, ATM providers must tell you if they're going to charge a fee, and the amount of the fee, and you have the option of proceeding with or cancelling the transaction or enquiry before the fee is incurred. However, in other parts of the world you won't always be notified that a fee applies or the amount of the fee. Any fees charged by an ATM provider will be debited to your account where you use their ATM, including in a country where the fees are not required to be notified to you before being incurred. We suggest reading up on your travel destination before you travel and, if in doubt, check the applicable fees with the ATM provider before using an ATM.

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

2Up Plastic Card

2Up cards can be ordered through the app for a one-off charge. Note: a digital debit card comes free with 2Up.

$10.00

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Published Monday, 15 May 2023

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal

When you make a withdrawal at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

International ATM Enquiry

When you make an enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

2Up Plastic Card

2Up cards can be ordered through the app for a one-off charge. Note: a digital debit card comes free with 2Up.

$10.00

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Published Friday, 14 April 2023

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal

When you make a withdrawal at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

International ATM Enquiry

When you make an enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Note: Transfer of Australian dollars or foreign currency into any Bendigo and Adelaide Bank account may incur a handling or acceptance fee by the accepting bank and / or intermediary bank(s), (the amounts of which are not disclosed to us). These fees may be deducted from the total funds originally remitted.

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Published Monday, 6 January 2020

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal

When you make a withdrawal at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

International ATM Enquiry

When you make an enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Published Monday, 11 November 2019

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal

When you make a withdrawal at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

$5.00

International ATM Enquiry

When you make an enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

$1.50

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee (including Osko)

Applies to each direct entry transaction (including Osko) where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.
If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Published Friday, 31 May 2019

There are three types of fees and charges which can apply to your account:

Transaction fees
Other fees and charges
Government charges

This is an important section. It provides you with information about the fees and charges applicable to your accounts.

Fees and charges and Government charges may apply to your account and your use of payment facilities. You authorise us to debit these fees and charges and Government charges to your account. Current fees and charges are set out in this document.

We may change the fees and charges from time to time including introducing new fees and charges and Government charges. However, we will not introduce entry fees, exit fees or charges for the management of funds, excluding charges for the maintenance of the account. There is no maximum limit for the amount of fees and charges we may impose. If the law regulates such a change we will only make the change to the extent permitted by, and subject to, the requirements of that law.

We may at our sole discretion waive any or all fees and charges from time to time, substitute one fee or charge for an alternative fee or charge, or impose a lower fee or charge.

Transaction Fees

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account at the time of the transaction.

Retail Purchase

When you make a payment for goods and services with your Debit Mastercard by mail, telephone or Internet, or through a manual merchant facility or EFTPOS terminal where "credit" is selected.

Free

EFTPOS Withdrawal

When you make a payment for goods and services by selecting "savings" or "cheque", or request cash from an EFTPOS terminal using a PIN in conjunction with your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Pay Anyone Transfer

When you instruct us to make a payment to another account at any financial institution within Australia using the Pay Anyone Service.

Free

BPAY Payment

When you instruct us through the Up app to pay a bill via the BPAY scheme.

Free

Direct Debit

When you make an arrangement with a third party to automatically debit your account, e.g. insurance and health fund premiums, membership and subscription payments.

Free

ATM Withdrawal, Balance Enquiry or Transfer

When you make a withdrawal, balance enquiry or transfer at an ATM in Australia using your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Note: Other financial institutions may charge you a fee for using their ATMs. This fee will be displayed at the time of the transaction and allows you to accept or decline the fee as shown.

International ATM Withdrawal

When you make a withdrawal at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

$5.00

International ATM Enquiry

When you make an enquiry at an International ATM using your Debit Mastercard.

$1.50

Other Fees & Charges

Unless otherwise stated, the following fees & charges are charged to your account when you request us to provide the service.

Replacement Card Fee

Charged when you request a replacement or re-issue of your Debit Mastercard.

Free

Express card delivery or redirection.

$15.00

Emergency Replacement Cards

Charged when you request the emergency replacement of your Debit Mastercard lost or stolen overseas, within 72 hours of request.

$100.00

Sales Voucher Retrieval Fee

Applies if we make a retrieval request for a Sales voucher for a non-PIN generated transaction and the retrieval request is withdrawn or determined as being a valid transaction.

$10.00 per retrieval

Audit Request

When you or your representative (for example, your accountant) request us to provide a written statement of your financial accounts with us.

$60.00 per hour (minimum charge $30.00)

BPAY Transaction Trace Fee

When you request us to trace a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

BPAY transaction Recall Fee

When you request us to recall a bill payment you have made through the BPAY scheme.

$20.00

Pay Anyone Trace Fee

Applies to each direct entry transaction where a trace is requested by the customer to obtain information about the transaction made or received by the customer.

$30.00

International Inward Telegraphic Transfers

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$10.00

Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Inward Telegraphic Transfer

Acceptance of a payment from an Australian financial institution for fast transfer into your account.

$2.00

Domestic Telegraphic Transfer Return Request

Applies if you request the return payment of a telegraphic transfer.

$25.00

Tips on minimising your transaction fees

There are several ways in which you can minimise your transaction fees. They include:

By making withdrawal and deposit transactions that are free of transaction fees.

If using an ATM which charges you a fee, withdrawing more cash less often may reduce the number of transactions you make.

As these tips have been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs, before acting on these tips, you should consider how appropriate they are having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs.

Prior to June 2019, our Product Terms were available in PDF form.

=== promotions_.txt ===

Promotions and competitions

From time to time we run promotions and competitions. This page exists to make associated terms and conditions easier to find.

Happy Hour: Info | Terms
Perk Up: Info | Terms
Hook Up a Mate: Info | Conditions of use
Upperversary: Info in app | Terms
Save Up 1000: Info | Keyring offer terms
Forgetful Mates Competition: Terms
Maybuy Merch Giveaway: Terms
Happy Hour Giveaway: Terms
Save Up 1000 Competition: Terms
Up High Tee Giveaway - Round 1: Terms
Up High Tee Giveaway - Round 2: Terms
Up High Tee Giveaway - Round 3: Terms
Up High Tee Giveaway - Round 4: Terms
EA$Y Money Giveaway Promotion: Terms
Rising 2024 Cash Back: Terms
Skull Snuggler Giveaway: Terms
Travel EA$Y Giveaway Promotion: Terms
My Money Anthem Giveaway Promotion: Terms
Upsider Cash Splash Promotion: Terms
Happy Hour Summer Giveaway Promotion: Terms

=== promotions_up-everyday-account-tmd_.txt ===

Target Market Determination For Up Everyday Account (UPDDA)

Product

This target market determination (TMD) applies to the Up Everyday Account.

Issuer

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL / ACL 237879 (Bendigo Bank).

Date from which this target market determination is effective

5 October 2021.

1. Target market for this product

Target Market

The retail clients for whom this product has been designed are individuals who:

want a fully digital transaction account for personal or domestic purposes;
will deposit or pay funds into the account that they can draw against;
want access to their funds on demand;
want the ability to make and receive payments frequently through one of the payment methods offered in connection with the account.

Product Description

An Up Everyday Account is a low-cost fully digital transaction account that allows a retail client to access their funds on demand. Retail clients can also make and receive payments through payment facilities offered in connection with the account (including electronic transfers available through the Up App, BPAY, Debit Mastercard, direct debits). There is no cheque or bankbranch access for this account. This means retail clients cannot make cash or other withdrawals from the account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Product key attributes

The key attributes of this product that make it likely to be consistent with the target market described above, include:

Attribute	Appropriate for
Eligibility	This product is only available to retail clients who are individuals aged 16 years or older.
Access funds on demand	Retail clients can access their funds, and make and receive payments, through multiple payments methods on demand (including BPAY, Bank@Post, Pay Anyone, direct debit and Debit Mastercard). Funds can only be electronically deposited into the account . This product may not be suitable for retail clients who want a transaction account with cheque access.
Fully digital transaction account	Retail clients who want a fully digital bank account. The Up Everyday Account can only be accessed through the Up App. This product may not be suitable for customers who want branch or face-to-face support.
No monthly services fees	Retail clients that do not want to pay monthly service fees.
No interest on deposits	No interest is earned on the funds deposited in the account.
Overdrawing account not permitted	Retail clients who do not want an overdraft facility on their account. If the account becomes overdrawn for any reason, fees and interest on the overdrawn amount may be charged.
Up App	Retail clients who want to access their account, perform transactions and have access to other features and benefits related to their account (e.g. ability to track spending) through an App on their mobile phone or other device.
2. How this product is to be distributed

Bendigo Bank applies certain conditions and restrictions to the distribution of this product so that distribution is likely to be to retail clients within the target market for this product. The conditions and restrictions are:

Channel	

This product is to be distributed only through the following channels:

Online through the Up App available on Apple and Android App stores.

Additional conditions or restrictions	

The following additional conditions and restrictions also apply to the distribution of this product:

Only prospective retail clients who are individuals and meet Bendigo Bank’s minimum eligibility criteria for the product should submit an application for this product;
This product can only be issued to retail clients after applying Bendigo Bank’s application and assessment processes; and
This product can only be issued (or arranged to be issued) by persons who are trained and accredited.
3. Reviewing this target market determination

Bendigo Bank will review this TMD as set out below:

Initial review	

Within the first year of the effective date.


Periodic reviews	

At least every 12 months from the initial review.


Review triggers or events	

Any event or circumstances arising that would reasonably suggest the TMD is no longer appropriate. This may include (but is not limited to):

a material change to the design or distribution of the product, including related documentation;
occurrence of a significant dealing;
distribution conditions found to be inadequate in ensuring that the product is issued to retail clients who are likely to be in the target market;
relevant changes in the law or its application, a change in an industry code or decision of a court or other body (including through regulatory guidance) that materially affects the product;
significant changes in metrics, including, but not limited to:
a material increase in the number of complaints in relation to a product or aspect of a product;
an increase in early termination of the product; and
any other event occurs, or information is received that reasonably suggests this TMD is no longer appropriate.

Where a review trigger has occurred, this TMD will be reviewed within 10 business days.

4. Reporting and monitoring this target market determination

Bendigo Bank’s third-party distributors who are regulated persons will need to collect, keep and report the following information to Bendigo Bank:

Type	Description of information	Frequency of reporting
Complaints	

Customer complaints made in relation to this product. This includes:

written details of the complaint; and
the number of complaints during the reporting period.
	

Reporting period: Monthly

When does the regulated person have to report: Within 10 business days of the end of the reporting period.


Sales data	

Sales and customer data in relation to this product as requested by Bendigo Bank.

	

Reporting period: Monthly

When does the regulated person have to report: Within 10 business days of the end of the reporting period.


Significant dealings	

The following information:

details of the significant dealing;
the date (or range) on which the significant dealing occurred;
why the distributor considers the dealing to be significant (including why it is inconsistent with this TMD); and
how the dealing was identified.
	

When does the regulated person have to report: Within 10 business days of the distributor becoming aware of the dealing.

=== resolve-a-complaint_.txt ===

Resolve a Complaint

If we’ve let you down we want to know about it, so we can make things right

We’re listening

If you have a complaint, our entire team can support you with the feedback. We’ll be objective, proactive and work with you to try and find a solution that's fair and reasonable.

We take your feedback seriously. Every complaint is documented, investigated and used to improve the experience for you and all our customers.

So if there’s something we can improve, please let us know by reaching out and sharing your experience.

Here’s how you can reach out to our team:

In-app: using “Talk to us” (6am - midnight Victorian time)
Email: support@up.com.au
Phone: 1300 002 258, (9am - 5pm Victorian time)
National Relay Service

Users who are deaf or have hearing or speech impairment can call through the National Relay Service:

TTY: users phone 133 677 then ask for 1300 002 258
Internet relay: users connect to the National Relay Service and then ask for 1300 002 258
Speak and Listen (speech-to-speech relay): users connect to the National Relay Service and then ask for 1300 002 258
If you’re unhappy with the resolution

If you’re not satisfied with the response provided, you have the option to refer your complaint to the relevant external dispute resolution scheme.

We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA).

AFCA provides fair and independent financial services complaint resolution that is free to customers. You can contact AFCA:

In writing: GPO Box 3, Melbourne VIC 3001
Phone: 1800 931 678
Email: info@afca.org.au
Website: https://www.afca.org.au

Time limits may apply to complain to AFCA and so you should act promptly or otherwise consult the AFCA website to find out if or when the time limit relevant to your circumstances expire.

If your complaint relates to how we handle your personal information you can also contact:

Office of the Australian Information Commissioner:

In writing: GPO Box 5218, Sydney NSW 2001
Phone: 1300 363 992
Email: enquiries@oaic.gov.au
Website: https://www.oaic.gov.au

This charter and related links form our policy on Customer Feedback Management and is supported by detailed procedures covering approach, responsibilities, monitoring, improving the customer experience and reporting.

You can also view our Code of Conduct.

Last updated: 20 Dec 2023

=== save-up-1000-competition-terms_.txt ===

SaveUp 1000 Competition Terms & Conditions ('Conditions of Entry')
Promotion

SaveUp 1000 Competition

Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

For any inquiries regarding this Promotion, please contact the Promoter at joel.frew@ferocia.com.au or on 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Start date: 19/01/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT
End date: 20/01/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT

Eligible entrants

Entry is only open to Australian residents who:

are 16 years and over;
are an Up Bank customer; and
have either completed or started and have an active 'SaveUp 1000 challenge' within the Up App.

Entrants must continue to have an active ‘SaveUp 1000 challenge’ at the time of the draw to be eligible for a prize.

How to enter

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

visit @up_banking on Instagram (located at www.instagram.com/up_banking);
comment on the promotional post with their ‘Upname’, tag a mate and (for entrants who have completed the 'SaveUp 1000 challenge') their 'SaveUp 1000 keyring' membership number;
‘like’ the promotional post; and
‘follow’ @up_banking on Instagram.
Entries permitted

Only one (1) eligible entry per person will be accepted. By completing the entry method, entrants will receive one (1) entry.

Total prize pool

AUD $2,800.00

Prize Description

The prize is an Up EA$Y Saving long sleeve t-shirt.

If the drawn winner has completed the 'SaveUp 1000 challenge' at the time of their entry and quoted their membership number in their comment, they will receive an additional Up EA$Y cap (1 size only).

The exact size and colour of the t-shirt and cap will be determined by the Promoter.

Number of prizes

40

Value (per prize)

AUD$40.00

Winning Method

Draw: computerised random selection - 22/01/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT

Winner notification:

The winners will be contacted via a chat thread within the Up App within seven (7) days of the draw.

Unclaimed Prizes

Prizes must be claimed by 25/03/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT. In the event of an unclaimed prize, the prize will be redrawn on 26/03/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT at Plexus, Level 4, 411 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000. The winners of the redraw will be notified via a chat thread within the Up App within seven (7) days of the redraw.

If there are no prize winner/s or winner/s for this Promotion cannot be found, this information will be published within the Up App.

The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
Employees (and their immediate family members) of agencies/companies directly associated with the conduct of this Promotion, the Promoter, businesses involved in determination of winner/s for the Promotion, businesses involved in the management of the Promotion, any organisation benefiting from the Promotion, the Promoter’s distributors, suppliers, subsidiary companies/businesses and associated companies and agencies are not eligible to enter. "Immediate family member" means any of the following: spouse, ex-spouse, de-facto spouse, child or step-child (whether natural or by adoption), parent, step-parent, grandparent, step-grandparent, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister or 1st cousin.
If a prize is won by a person under the age of 18, the prize may be awarded to the winner's parent or guardian and where applicable to the prize a nominated parent/guardian must accompany any person under 18 years of age.
Draw:
The draw will take place at Plexus, Level 4, 411 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000 at 12:00 pm AEDT on 22/01/24 using computerised random selection.
The first forty (40) valid entries drawn will win the prize specified in the Schedule above.
The draw conductor may draw additional reserve entries in case an invalid entry or entrant is drawn.
If a draw is scheduled on the weekend or a public holiday, the draw will be conducted at the same time and location on the following business day. The Promoter will ensure each draw is open for public scrutiny and anyone may witness the draw on request. The winner of a drawn prize is determined by chance.
All reasonable attempts will be made to contact each winner.
If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize within a reasonable time, as specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
Entry and continued participation in the Promotion is dependent on the entrant following and acting in accordance with the Instagram Terms of Use, (http://instagram.com/legal/terms/). This Promotion adheres to the terms and conditions set out in the Instagram promotion guidelines which can be found at: http://help.instagram.com/179379842258600. Any questions or comments regarding the Promotion must be directed to the Promoter, not to Instagram. The entrant releases Instagram and its associated companies from all liabilities arising in respect of the Promotion. Entrants acknowledge that the Promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with Instagram.
The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and specification.
No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion. Where entry is allowed online, there is no additional cost to enter the Promotion other than any cost paid by the entrant to access the website or social media platform of entry via their Internet service provider.
If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter will handle personal information in accordance with its privacy policy which is located at https://up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion and to the State and Territory lottery departments as required under the relevant lottery legislation. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion.
The Promoter reserves the right to refuse to allow a winner to take part in any or all aspects of a prize, if the Promoter determines in their absolute discretion, that a winner is not in the physical or mental condition necessary to be able to safely participate in or accept the prize. It is a condition of accepting the prize that a winner (or their parent or legal guardian if under the age of 18) may be required to sign a legal release as determined by the Promoter in its absolute discretion, prior to receiving a prize. If a winner is under the age of 18, a nominated parent or legal guardian of the winner will be required to sign the legal release on the winner's behalf.
If a prize is provided to the Promoter by a third party, the prize is subject to the terms and conditions of the third party prize supplier. The terms and conditions which apply to the prize at the time it is issued to the winner will prevail over these Conditions of Entry in the event of any inconsistency. To the extent permitted by law the Promoter accepts no responsibility or liability for any delay or failure by the third party to deliver the prize, any delay or failure relating to the prize itself or failure by the third party to meet any of its obligations in these Conditions of Entry or otherwise.
Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize, subject to State or Territory regulation.
The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion or claiming a prize, the Promoter will resolve the dispute in direct consultation with the entrant. If the dispute cannot be resolved the Promoter’s decision will be final.
The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or wilful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation). For the sake of clarity, this clause shall not apply where the Promoter has contributed to or caused such loss, expense, damage, personal injury or death and shall not apply to any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in each case the Promoter’s liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
The winner(s) will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 18 January 2024

=== save-up-club-keyring-offer_.txt ===

Save Up 1000 Keyring Offer

Conditions of Use

To mark your achievement of saving up $1000 in a year, and building healthy habits, we’re offering you a free, limited edition Save Up 1000 ‘graduation’ keyring.

To qualify, you must have first passed KYC / ID verification successfully, then fully completed all 7 levels of the in-app Save Up 1000 challenge. If eligible you should receive a prize offer in your activity feed on the Activity screen in-app (shortly after completion of the challenge). This offer will commence from 9 a.m. AEDT Monday 23 January 2023, and will continue ongoing while stocks last.

To claim the keyring prize, simply tap through the in-app flow from this offer notification, and ensure your delivery address is correct. Once this flow is complete, you should see confirmation of your successful prize claim in your activity feed.

Note, this offer will only be valid for 30 days from when you first receive the keyring offer notification.

The keyring should be delivered to you within approximately 14 days, but can take longer depending on Australia Post congestion at the time of dispatch.

We may at our absolute discretion cancel this offer at any time and without notice to you. Without limiting the circumstances we may do this if:

We believe you are acting in a fraudulent, deceptive or misleading way.
We close your account.
We believe the security or quality of the Up app or related services is threatened.
You have unpaid fees or charges, or direct deposit dishonours on your account.
You don’t provide us with the correct mailing details or do not accept the offer in-app within 30 days.

If you have further questions, use the ‘Talk to us’ tab in the app to contact our Support team.

Last modified: 14 March 2023

=== scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
LEARN TO SPOT & STOP A SCAM

From ‘Beginner’ to ‘Black-Belt’, master the art of spotting scams before they spot you. Your best defence is self-defence. If you think you’ve fallen victim to a scam, don’t hesitate, strike first and contact us.

LEARN HOW TO SPOT & STOP A SCAM

From ‘Beginner’ to ‘Black-Belt’, master the art of spotting scams before they spot you. Your best defense is self-defense. If you think you’ve fallen victim to a scam, don’t hesitate, strike first and contact us.

REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY
WHAT TO DO IF YOU THINK
YOU'VE BEEN SCAMMED

1

Don’t panic. If you believe you’ve been scammed or your details have been compromised, it’s important to take action quickly.

2

Stop all contact with the suspected scammer, document the conversation and anything you can about the scam.

3

Message us in-app via ‘Talk To Us’, call us on 1300 002 258 or email us at support@up.com.au.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

A Deadly self-defence starts with a good offence

We’re always protecting you from the shadows, without you lifting a finger.

Multi-Factor Authentication
Activity Monitoring
Biometric Authentication
Talk to Us in App
Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

Extra Muscle?
Helpful resources when you need some more help in the fight
Call in reinforcements with these powerful resources.
Scamwatch.gov.au

Run by the National Anti-Scam Centre, ScamWatch collects reports about scams to help warn people and take action to stop them. They also provide up-to-date information to help you spot and avoid scams.

IDCARE.ORG

IDCARE is our national identity and cyber support service. They are a not-for-profit charity that was formed to address a critical support gap for individuals confronting identity and cyber security concerns.

ASKIZZY.ORG.AU

Ask Izzy connects people in need with support services that provides housing, food, financial assistance, counselling and much more. It’s free and anonymous, with thousands of services listed across Australia.

NDH.ORG.AU

The National Debt Helpline is a not-for-profit service that helps people tackle their debt problems. Their professional financial counsellors offer a free, independent and confidential service.

OAIC.GOV.AU

You can request that a credit reporting body place a ban on your consumer credit report to prevent a scammer from being able to use or disclose the information as part of a credit check.

BECONNECTED.ESAFETY.GOV.AU

Be Connected is an Australian government initiative committed to building the confidence, digital skills and online safety of older Australians.

=== scams_bank-impersonation-scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Bank Impersonation Scams
CALLS & TEXTs AREN’T ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM
CALLS & TEXTs AREN’T ALWAYS WHAT THEY SEEM

Scammers are masters of disguise, often posing as a someone from the government, a bank representative, or as part of a big business. They can even pretend to be friends or family. With a bit of training, you'll see right through their ploys.

Spotting a scam

Impersonation scams come in many forms and can be tricky to spot. A scammer could pretend to be someone else in almost any situation that isn’t face-to-face. With the right training, you'll be able to spot the signs when communicating over the phone or through text messages. There's never a bad time to verify the legitimacy of any communication from a company to you.

They have the technology to call you from a number that can appear genuine, sometimes even sending text messages that appear in official bank threads.

They often know personal details about you and your bank account.

They claim your bank account has been compromised and to secure your funds, they need access to it or need you to transfer your money to an account they’ve set up for you.

We’ll never call and ask you for your passcode, PIN, one-time password (OTP) or recovery code.

We’ll never ask you to download software or request access to your device.

We’ll never send links via SMS or email requiring you to log in or enter any sensitive information.

Be wary of anyone contacting you claiming to be from Up, even if they know personal details like your name, DOB, address, or the first six and last four digits of your card.

Self-Defence

In a game of persuasion the power always lies with you. Take a stand against shapeshifting impersonation scammers and turn your superior brain power into your secret weapon. Detect lies in real time. Always stop, take the time to think and then act.

If someone calls or texts you asking you to move money or to provide your PIN, immediately hang up and contact us in-app via ‘Talk to Us’.

Ignore any call or message asking you to move funds or any claims that a bank will move funds on your behalf.

If you receive an SMS that claims to be from Up, always check it’s legitimate. Take a screenshot and send it to us via ‘Talk to Us’ in-app.

If someone calls or texts you claiming to be someone, always stop and verify the legitimacy of the conversation by calling the official phone number of the business.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY

=== scams_buying-and-selling-scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Buying & Selling Scams
STAY ALERT when buying or selling online
STAY ALERT when buying or selling online

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business, in 2022 alone, Australians lost over $45 million in buying and selling scams. Use these tips and tricks to protect yourself from getting burned on online marketplaces.

Spotting a scam

Whether you're buying or selling, it's crucial to keep your wits about you when dealing with unknown or unverified people. Sharpen your instincts and recognise these telltale scam signs. Becoming an expert on bad behaviour keeps you in control.

When you're buying online

They setup fake profiles and websites offering products or services that may be extremely rare or priced well below what other people are selling.

They’ll make excuses to not meet up in-person and ask you to move to a different platform such as WhatsApp/Telegram/Signal to continue the conversation.

They’ll refuse to use secure methods of payment such as cash in-person or PayPal.

When you're selling online

They’re often willing to send you money for your product without viewing it in-person.

A scammer posing as a buyer may claim to have paid you more than the agreed price and ask you to refund the difference.

They’ll ask you to pay shipping or transportation costs upfront, 'promising' to reimburse you later.

You may receive an email or text shortly after a buyer claims to have made a payment, asking you to 'upgrade' your PayID account. PayID is a free service for all customers. This is always a scam.

Self-Defence

If you sense you’re being taken for a ride, take action swiftly. Your age, size and strength don’t matter — utilise these techniques to defend yourself against buying & selling scams.

Cover yourself. Use a secure payment method such as cash in-person or PayPal.

Perform an ocular assessment of the situation. When making a purchase, request to physically inspect the item.

When selling an item, provide your Upname to the seller. This will protect your phone number or email from spam/phishing messages.

If you’re seeing some seriously suspicious behaviour, do not provide any personal information to the seller, including your phone number or email address.

Even if a scammer is being pushy, never pay in cryptocurrencies or gift cards.

When selling, do not post an item until the funds have cleared in your account.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY

=== scams_device-control-scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Device Control Scams
You could be giving scammers VIP access to your device.
You could be giving scammers VIP access to your device.

You might have unknowingly given a scammer permission to strike on your device without even realising it. With your guard down, you could be hosting a dangerous app that spies on your data. Learn how to detect if your device has been compromised.

Spotting a scam

It’s never too late. If you have had your card number compromised or if you’re seeing unauthorised charges on your account, please reach out in-app via ‘Talk to Us’ or give us a call on 1300 002 258.

They might cold call you, posing as tech support from companies or government departments.

They may create unsolicited pop-ups or send emails warning that your device is compromised, urging you to call a tech support number.

They may convince you to install diagnostic or repair programs, but they’ll actually install remote access software like TeamViewer or AnyDesk, claiming it’s for a problem you’re unaware of.

Scammers create a sense of urgency, claiming your device is infected and that only they can fix it. They exploit your lack of tech knowledge, insisting that remote access is the only solution.

They may create websites and apps that closely mimic those you regularly use, sometimes sending links to fake apps where you enter your bank login and password.

Self-Defence

Avoid engaging in unsolicited conversations. Delete suspicious messages and do not respond to unsolicited emails or SMS messages asking for personal or financial information.

If something feels weird, hang up. Real tech support specialists will never cold call you. Instead, call back using the legitimate company phone number you find yourself.

Complacency leads to compromise. Never install software a cold caller has asked you to install on your device.

Regularly check for apps and software you may have installed. If you don’t recognise it, delete the app and all data associated with it immediately.

For Android users: Open the Google Play Store, tap the menu button on the top-right corner, tap ‘Manage apps & device’, tap on the "Manage" tab at the top of the screen and sort by ‘Recently updated’.

For iOS Users: From your home screen, swipe left until you see the App Library. Your apps are automatically sorted into categories. Tap on the ‘Recently Added’ folder. If there are any apps there that you do not recognise, touch and hold the app in App Library, tap Delete App, then tap Delete.

Even if a website or message seems legitimate, always think twice before entering any personal information like passwords or usernames.

It’s never too late. If you have had your card number compromised or if you’re seeing unauthorised charges on your account, please reach out in-app via ‘Talk to Us’ or give us a call on 1300 002 258.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY

=== scams_identity-theft-scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Identity Theft Scams
BEWARE OF SCAMMERS PRETENDING TO BE YOU
BEWARE OF SCAMMERS PRETENDING TO BE YOU

Identity theft scams pose a different kind of threat, often becoming apparent only after a scammer has opened new accounts, bought a phone plan, or used your money. Keep watch on your details and send imposters to an early grave.

Spotting a scam

Identity theft scams typically involve a scammer pretending to be you to steal your money or gain other benefits. Once they have enough of your personal details, they can assume your entire identity to open bank accounts, take out loans, or conduct illegal business in your name. Don't live in fear; by watching for a few key signs, you can strike first against these fraudulent fighters.

Your identity may have been stolen if you receive unsolicited bills, credit card statements, or loan statements by mail or email.

Be wary of calls from creditors about debts you don’t recognise. If you didn’t create the debt, a scam may be involved.

You may have difficulty getting a credit card or loan due to an unexplained poor credit rating caused by a scammer’s activities in your name.

Your personal details may be involved in a legitimate company’s data breach. Scammers often steal personal or business records through hacking and data breaches.

Scammers can piece together the building blocks of your data from multiple sources. Be aware they can also share and sell stolen personal information to other criminals.

Self-Defence

Whether or not you can confirm a scammer has stolen your personal details, master a basic set of moves to keep them safe. The scams may vary, but the signs are the same. Defence is as simple as following directions, so you will fear no scam.

Don’t open suspicious messages—delete them. Don’t respond to unsolicited emails or SMS’ asking for your personal or financial information.

Be mindful of how much personal information you share on social media. Scammers may be trawling profiles for even the smallest scrap of your data.

If a new card or product arrives that you didn’t apply for, contact us immediately. Regularly check your credit file for any unexpected changes.

Identity theft isn’t always digital. Regularly ensure your physical mailbox is secure and shred any documents with personal information before tossing them away.

Even if a website or message seems legitimate, always think twice before entering any personal information such as passwords or usernames.

It’s never too late. If you’ve given your personal information to a scammer, visit IDCARE or call 1800 595 160 to get help planning your next move against scammers.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY

=== scams_investment-scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Investment Scams
STAY on the lookout for scammers posing as investors
STAY on the lookout for scammers posing as investors

Australians have lost over $1.5 billion to investment scams. This category alone has cost Australians more money than every other scam category combined. Don’t be drawn into deceit. When scammers promise big financial returns, think twice before parting with your hard-earned cash.

Spotting a scam

Investment scams trick you into sending money to a fake investor, whether in the stock market, cryptocurrency, or foreign currency exchanges. These scammers have no limits on where they can hide your cash. They often first contact you through unsolicited emails, phone calls, or text messages. Identifying suspicious threats early is key to mastering the art of scam self-defence.

They’ll often set up websites promising high returns and involve minimal risk. They’ll pressure you to act quickly or else you’ll miss out on maximising your returns.

They could send you fictitious account statements showing returns that don’t actually exist. Some companies will even provide ABN/ASIC documents.

They’ll confidently push their product, claiming that the more you invest, the greater the return. They’ll also create a sense of urgency.

Investment scammers can pose as multiple people. They might start as your friend and then introduce you to another scammer who offers an “opportunity” they claim to have successfully invested in. Often, both the “friend” and the “investment scammer” are the same person.

Self-Defence

If you sense you’re being taken for a ride, take action swiftly. Your age, size and strength don’t matter — utilise these techniques to defend yourself against investment scammers.

Check a scammer before they check you. Verify any company you discuss your finances with holds a current Australian Financial Services licence or Australian Credit Licence from ASIC.

Make sure they’re who they say they are—detective work goes a long way. Do not simply trust that someone works for a company without verifying it yourself.

Use your secret weapon. Australian government website ‘Moneysmart’ publishes a list of companies, businesses and websites that are not to be trusted.

Call upon your team for extra help. Talking through the investment with someone not directly involved can help you see it from a different perspective.

Make calculated moves and keep your cash close. Take time before making an investment decision. Investment scammers are master at moving money quickly which makes recovering lost funds difficult.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY

=== scams_job-and-employment-scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Job & Employment Scams
You could be wORKING for a payday that never comes
You could be wORKING for a payday that never comes

Scammers will tempt you with job offers that promise high pay for minimal effort. It's a smoke-and-mirrors technique where only the scammer benefits in the end. Beef up before engaging with a potential bad boss. The dojo of deception defence is now open.

Spotting a scam

Job and employment scams involve scammers promising earnings for completing game-like tasks on a website or app. You might be asked to send money to "top up" your account to unlock tasks, accumulating a balance you’ll never fully redeem. The scam typically ends when you attempt to withdraw your balance or run out of funds to send to the scammer.

They advertise jobs via legitimate social media platforms pretending to be hiring on behalf of well known companies and online shopping platforms.

They’ll promise you’ll earn a high income while working from home, with little effort and no experience.

They’ll ask you to top up an account with your own money or cryptocurrency to complete tasks, often resulting in you never seeing your money again.

Employment scammers may target more than just your wallet. They might ask to use your bank account to receive funds and then transfer them to another account, promising a commission. This is money laundering and participating in it is a criminal offence.

In the eyes of a scammer, your personal information is as valuable as cash. They may ask for more personal details than necessary for a legitimate job application.

Self-Defence

Before you get cornered by scammers promising a payday that never comes, equip yourself with the skills to fight back. With training, you'll react swiftly and effectively. Think and act before agreeing to employment that seems too good to be true.

Cross-check the job listing. Before applying, check if the job is advertised on LinkedIn or if the company has its own listing online.

Personal protection comes first. Be aware of how much information you’re sharing with a scammer. If it feels too much, it probably is.

Never send money to someone offering you a job. You’re working to make money, not lose it!

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY

=== scams_romance-scams_.txt ===

SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Romance Scams
Don’t let love blind you to scams
Don’t let love blind you to scams

Your online lover might be a scammer operating undercover. Using classic catfishing techniques, they can quickly win your heart and then your money. Australians have lost over $210 million to romance scams. Perfect your perception skills to spot red flags before it’s too late.

Spotting a scam

A romance scammer targets people seeking love, often approaching you on dating websites, apps, or social media. Over days, months, or even years, they build a bond and gain your trust. These scammers can be particularly ruthless, preying on loneliness or personal circumstances. Avoid the pain of being scammed by learning the telltale signs and making decisions with your head, not your heart.

They’ll quickly build a relationship and then ask for money, claiming to be in urgent need or presenting a "great" investment opportunity.

They might start with a small amount, but if successful, they’ll repeatedly ask for more—often using unusual payment methods.

They’ll encourage you to keep your relationship secret from loved ones and coach you on how to respond to any questions or concerns.

Romance scammers will protect their true identity at all costs and often avoid meeting in person or answering a video call.

Self-Defence

Enjoy your new romance, but when faced with tough decisions, use your head, not your heart. Learn to recognise relationship-ending finishing combos and keep romance scammers out of your wallet.

If something feels off, reverse search any images you receive from a romance scammer. Upload their pictures to Google Images to check for any matches.

Discuss the relationship with close friends and family. Getting a fresh perspective from others can make all the difference.

Never send explicit images of yourself online. Scammers can use these images to blackmail you for ransom.

When money is involved, don’t rush the love. Take it slow and ask as many questions as you can.

Stay alert at all times. Watch for spelling and grammar mistakes, and look for inconsistencies in stories.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY

=== security_.txt ===

Security

Security is at the heart of everything we do at Up. To help you protect your money and personal information we’ve provided some information below.

Device security

General tips to keep your device secure:

Things that are a good idea to do:
Always set a passcode on your mobile device. It’s best not to set your passcode to something that’s easy for other people to guess, like 123456 or 000000
Give us a call immediately on 1300 002 258 if your device is lost or stolen, or you suspect your passcode has been compromised.
Things that are not a good idea:
Never leave your mobile device unattended. It could get lost or stolen. You should always keep your phone on your person, in your pocket, or your handbag, or another easily accessible place.
Don’t let other people use your device to make purchases or payments. You may think you can trust them. But you never know what may happen.
Don’t use the Up app with a device other than a compatible iPhone or Android device. Apart from seeing a wonky-looking app, using a non-supported device could open you up to security threats.
Don’t use the Up app if your mobile device has been “jailbroken”. The standard iOS and Android operating systems are already amazing now-a-days, and there are likely more risks with a jailbroken device than a standard one.
If other people use your device, then either don’t install the Up app on that device, or if you do install the Up app on a shared device make sure you tick the “Require Login” option in Security settings in the Up menu.
Card security

Basic safety rules with your card can help keep you protected:

Your card
Carry your card with you, or keep it in a safe place.
You shouldn’t let your card out of your sight when making a purchase.
If your card has expired, destroy it immediately.
Your PIN or passcode
Don’t select a PIN or passcode that’s easily identified with you (e.g. your date of birth, or your post code).
Protect your PIN and your passcode by never disclosing them to anyone.
We will never ask you to disclose your PIN or your passcode. Don’t be fooled by someone calling you and saying they are from Up and asking you nicely. Just say no.
Don’t write down your PIN or passcode anywhere, except to enter it into a secure password manager.
If your PIN or passcode has been lost, stolen or compromised in any way – you can simply change your PIN or passcode, or deactivate your card using the Up app. If you need help with this, please notify us immediately.
When entering your PIN at an ATM or EFTPOS machine, make sure no one is watching. If you feel uncomfortable entering your PIN, or see anything suspicious, simply don't do it. You’re better safe than sorry.
Account security

Important information to help keep your account secure:

Important:

Stay vigilant and be wary of anyone calling claiming to be from Up, even if the person claims to know personal details about you such as your name, DOB, address or even if they know the first 6 or last 4 digits of your card.

If you receive a call like this, do not share any information. Terminate the call and reach out to our specialist team in-app via Talk to Us.

We'll never:
Call and ask you for your passcode, PIN, OTP or recovery code.
Ask you to download software or request access to your device.
Send you links via SMS or email requiring you to log in or enter sensitive information.
Ask you to transfer funds.

=== shes-on-the-money_.txt ===

Master your Money Goals
with Up x She’s on the Money
Welcome!

Up, Victoria Devine and the She’s on the Money team share one big goal: to help the next generation of Australians take control of their money.

Up makes powerful money tools that give you total control and visibility over your cash. She’s on the Money has a powerful financial framework that thousands of people have used to get out of debt, grow their savings, and match their spending to their true values. Today we’re joining forces: combining Victoria’s advice with smart Up moves you can use to put it into action.

Over to you, Vic!

Know where you are, know who you are
Set goals up and smash them down
Budget like a boss
Learn, Share and Celebrate Your Wins

The advice shared by She’s on the Money is general in nature and does not consider your individual circumstances. She’s on The Money exists purely for educational purposes and should not be relied upon to make an investment or financial decision. And stress less, Victoria Devine is an Authorised Representative of Australia Pacific Funds Management Proprietary Limited ABN 34 132 463 257 — AFSL 339151.

Know Where You Are, Know Who You Are

"When our finances are out of control, it can often feel like our lives are out of control. Nobody needs that stress.

Finance shouldn’t be hard and it shouldn’t be something we’re afraid of, so let’s start owning it, and take control of our relationship with money.

The easiest place to start is to acknowledge where we are at and face that reality — warts and all. There can be a lot of shame involved when it comes to money, and it’s this shame which often prevents incredible people (like you) from actioning change. Let’s put on a new attitude, and make a start today!

The other really important thing we need to understand is our money stories, which provide us with important context as to why we are the way we are with money. Say for example you grew up in a household where money was tight. As a result, you may save every penny you earn. Or by contrast, maybe money caused a lot of angst in your family, so as soon as you have it now, you spend it, because actually having money fills you with that sense of anxiety. Our money stories help us to understand our past behaviours with money and importantly, they can help us steer ourselves in a more positive direction in the future."

Vic’s Top Tips For Taking Control Of Your Financial Life

Understand your money story. (Hint: Vic’s podcast has heaps of other people’s stories. Maybe some will spark insight on yours?),

Take finance back to basics — forget complexity!

Leave your shame at the door.

Putting It Into Action With Up

Up can help you understand your story. When you buy things, spending insights show you what you spend, when, and where. Are you a midnight impulse shopper? A stress splurger?

Savers give you space to organise what you have, what you need and what you want. Easy.

Upcoming Bills will help you understand what you’ve committed to. Stare those bills down: knowledge is power.

Set Goals Up and Smash Them Down

“There’s no feeling quite like smashing a savings goal you’ve been working towards for ages. But we can’t smash goals if we don’t have any.

Let’s figure out what you want for your financial future more broadly, then write down your short and medium—term goals so we can create a path to your big end goal. Say you’re saving for a house deposit. If we establish our timeframes and put in place achievable milestones we can work towards, then our goals will be easier to reach purely because we’re breaking them down and making them more accessible.

One of the most important parts of goal setting, which I talk about all the time, is to ensure our goals are ones we can actually achieve. For example, if we’re earning $60k a year, it’s pretty unreasonable to set the goal of saving $50k of that, because life is expensive.

Failing to meet that over the top goal can then leave us feeling really negative about ourselves and our ability to save, which then often leads to spending splurges and a subsequent feeling of worthlessness, and you my friend, are certainly not worthless.

So rather than shooting for the stars, I want us to aim for what will propel our financial position forward in a way that doesn’t risk disappointment. In saying that, I know you’re stronger and smarter than you think you are, so don’t just aim to tuck away a few extra bucks a week — lay out your plan, follow your path and see the financial reward follow!”

Vic’s Top Tips To Setting Financial Goals + How To Put It Into Action With Up

1.

Write down your goals to keep yourself accountable and power yourself forward.

2.

Remind yourself to be patient: slow and steady progress is our aim.

3.

Be realistic about what your goals are. We don’t want you falling short and feeling deflated.

Use Up’s Savers to map out your money goals. Give each a recognisable emoji and a target amount.

Set up Pay Splitting or Auto Transfers to keep yourself on track. With Pay Splitting, you choose what percentage of your wage you want to put into each Saver. Auto Transfers are a set dollar amount you choose for a given date (say, payday).

Use Up’s Insights to get the big picture. We’ll show you what you spend and where — as well as your future commitments like bills and AfterPay due dates.

Upgrade your banking today

Sign up in minutes

Budget Like A Boss

“Budgeting is one of the things I am asked about the most and the truth is, budgeting is probably not what you think it is. It’s not about restriction or misery, it’s about understanding your cash flow (the money you have coming in versus the money you have going out) to help you spend in a way that won’t jeopardize your big money goals.

Rather than sticking to a strict budget of $50 a week that means we can’t afford to go out for a wine with our mates on a Friday, I want us to start thinking about our budgets from a more holistic perspective and factor things like occasional splurges into our budget, so spontaneous spends don’t sabotage all of our hard work.

A classic budgeting mistake I see people making is having a diet—like restrictive mentality when it comes to money, where they’ll allocate themselves the bare minimum amount to last them the week on a Monday, but by the time Friday rolls around they’re so sick of being frugal that they lash out and spend big, reversing all of their hard work. For this reason, our budgets need to be sustainable and practical, all while still working toward our end goal of financial freedom. Once you’re on top of your budget you’ll know when and where your money is going, which will make the path to other goals like saving and investing a whole lot clearer.”

Vic’s Top Tips For Budgeting + How To Put It Into Action With Up

1.

Factor in the fun stuff, so you don’t have to go without.

2.

Throw restriction out the window — sustainability is our goal.

3.

Understand your cash flow as that’s the key that will inform your budget.

Once you’ve got a view of what you need, what about things you want? When your Rent and Food Savers are handled, maybe kick off a Coffee saver, a Friday fund, and a Someday Doggo dream. Heaps of Upsiders use (and boost) Round-Ups to boost their fun savers.

Keep it smooth by combining savers with Covers and Forwards. When every dollar has a place, and there’s a place for every dollar, it’s easier to roll at a sustainable pace.

Spending Insights let you see at a glance how you’ve tracked in a given month. How much did you earn, how much have you spent, and how much have you put towards your savings goals?

Learn, Share and Celebrate Your Wins

“Money management — like so many things — is just easier when we’re able to talk about it with our mates. For way too long money was something we felt we couldn’t talk about, but I want us to leave all of that behind because the more conversations we’re having about money, the better.

There is so much confusion out there when it comes to finance and conversations with our mates not only make things easier, but they also mean we can support each other in a whole host of other ways. Like pointing each other in the right direction if we are in a bit of financial trouble and feeling overwhelmed, or being each other’s cheerleaders along the way to help us stay on track. Mates make everything better, and money is certainly no exception to that.

If your friends aren’t interested in money chats, I get it. Finance definitely still has that stuffy, suit—wearing aura about it, but I think that’s changing and I honestly believe there is no better time than now to get excited about money. If you do have friends who are resistant to talking finance, I’d suggest pointing them to the resources that helped you become excited about money. I can think of one podcast I’d definitely recommend…”

Vic’s Top Tips For Making Money Better With Mates

Organise money catch ups where you chat all things finance to help keep each other accountable.

Introduce them to the resources that inspired your interest in money — share any podcasts, blogs or books that helped on your journey to realising that money conversations don’t have to be bland.

Putting It Into Action With Up

Talking about money is awesome. To get the conversation started, Up makes money with mates easier and less awkward. Pay them to their preferred $Upname, request money after a dinner date… sending money is just like a conversation, so let’s chat while we’re at it.

Why not share your money wins when you fill up a Saver pool! (Seriously, hit Talk To Us when you fill that Someday Doggo fund, because our support team would LOVE to meet Furdinand.)

Get $50 Off She's On The Money's Masterclass Using Code UPYEAH

ACCESS HERE

Upgrade your banking today

Sign up in minutes

Product & offer T&Cs @ up.com.au/terms. Up accounts issuer Bendigo & Adelaide Bank.
Payment requests promotion T&Cs.

The advice shared by She’s on the Money is general in nature and does not consider your individual circumstances. She’s on The Money exists purely for educational purposes and should not be relied upon to make an investment or financial decision. And stress less, Victoria Devine is an Authorised Representative of Australia Pacific Funds Management Proprietary Limited ABN 34 132 463 257 — AFSL 339151.

=== support_.txt ===

How can we help?

Got questions? Need answers? We got you.

Chat to our support team in-app using Talk to Us.

Can't access the app or card stolen?

Up in a nutshell

The big questions.

What is Up?

Up is an Australian mobile-only digital bank. Up is designed, developed and delivered through a collaboration between Ferocia (a software company) and Bendigo Bank. Up runs on your smartphone, and provides you with an app and a debit card linked to a real bank account. “Super-powered” banking refers to Up’s superior ease-of-use and awesome features including signing-up in as little as 3-minutes in-app, seamless merchant identification, instant in-app Apple Pay activation, real-time conversational payments, automated round-ups, spending insights, and more.

How safe is Up?

The Up app and all Up branded banking and financial products available in the Up app are issued and provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. Deposits provided through the Up apps are protected by the Financial Claims Scheme (FCS), up to $250,000 per person (in aggregate across all deposit products held with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank). Up also uses the latest security technology, including smartphone biometrics and advanced cryptography, to protect your money.

Is my money used ethically?

Deposits provided through Up are held by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. Where your Up deposits are held matters and because of this Bendigo has committed to:

Supporting global efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C by reducing absolute emissions to net zero by 2040.
No direct lending to projects or large-scale electricity generation in coal, coal seam gas, crude oil, natural gas and native forest logging.*
Maintaining Community Bank investment, through a profit-with-purpose social enterprise Community Bank model.
Gender diversity (40:40:20) at every level of the organisation by the end of 2025.
Reducing complexity, modernising and digitising the Bank to improve outcomes for customers and enhance protection over their personal data and information.
Continuing to be Australia’s Most Trusted Bank and maintaining both Bendigo Bank and Up’s strong customer satisfaction scores.

* Applies to all employees and all other parties acting for or on behalf of the Group that prepare credit applications and undertake credit decisioning.

Can I use my Up card overseas?

Yes! The Up card makes a great travel companion, and is accepted at more than 47 million Mastercard® acceptance locations worldwide. There are no fees on international purchases online or in person, and there’s no rebates or conditions to worry about.

So how much does Up cost?

Precise pricing for your Up account.

Does Up have monthly account keeping fees?

No. Up doesn’t charge monthly account keeping fees. In fact, Up is actually free for most standard use with practically no fees at all.

Does Up have any ATM fees?

ATM access for Up customers is currently free at most major banks in Australia, including Bendigo Bank and the 4 major banks. Although Up does not charge ATM fees, we do not control the fees charged by any other financial institution or independent ATM operator. All ATMs must display the fee at the time of transaction and allow you to accept or decline. If you choose to accept the fee we do not offer ATM rebates.

Okay, how do I get started?

How to get Up and running.

How do I fund my Up account? Can I deposit cash or cheques?

Funding your account digitally is a breeze: your Up spending account has a BSB and Account Number like any other bank account in Australia. You can also easily nominate your phone number or email address as a “PayID”. Up lets you use your BSB and Account Number, or your phone number or your email address to deposit money almost instantly using “Osko”. Osko provides near-instant payments 24/7 (including weekends) between participating financial institutions.

You can also deposit cheques through Bank@Post™ at your local Australia Post outlet with no fees attached.

Can I deposit cash or cheques?

You can deposit cash and cheques through Bank@Post™ at your local Australia Post outlet with no fees attached. All you need is your physical, activated Up card and PIN. You may also be asked for ID if depositing a cheque.

Please note: Cash/Cheque deposits may not be available for 5-10 business days.

How do I open an Up account?

To get an Up bank account on your mobile in under 3 minutes, simply download the Up app from the App Store for iOS or Google Play for Android and follow the instructions. Opening a regulated bank account in Australia requires an Australian Driver's Licence or a Passport. After we successfully validate your ID, you can start banking with Up.

Is there a limit to how much I can pay someone using Up?

Yep. Up applies dynamic payment limits at the time you create a payment. These limits are based on a number of factors, including how much or how frequently you’ve paid the intended recipient previously.

These limits are in place for the protection of both you and your money. Your specific limits will be visible when you make a payment.

Is there a limit to how much I can withdraw from an ATM using Up?

Up currently has a combined $1,000 daily limit for ATM and EFTPOS withdrawals, unless you ask for the daily limit to be changed.

Do I earn interest on the money I have in Up?

Once activated by making 5 successful physical or digital card purchases in a calendar month, Up pays 4.35% p.a. across your Up and 2Up Savers, up to a combined balance of $1M on deposits in your Up Savers as well as up to $1M in your 2Up Savers. Interest on Savers is calculated daily and paid monthly. Money held in Everyday accounts does not earn any interest. Read the full conditions.

What if I don’t want to earn interest? Can I opt out?

If you’d prefer not to earn interest on the money in your personal or 2Up Savers, you can opt out at any time.

Head to your Savers tab in-app, tap the “Bonus Rate” banner at the top of the Savers list, and press “Manage Interest Settings”.

Note: If you have a 2Up account, both you and your Player 2 have equal control over your interest settings. See Section 8 of the Up Terms and Conditions for more information.

How do I send money into my Up account from overseas?

It's simple to wire transfer money from an international destination to your Up account. You'll need to use a SWIFT code. For Up, the details you'll need are:

Swift code: BENDAU3B
Bank Name: Bendigo and Adelaide Bank
Address: Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550

Your account details will be your name, BSB and account number.

Just for your reference, the exchange rate applied on incoming transfers is updated daily and is subject to change without notice. You can check that here: https://www.bendigobank.com.au/calculators/foreign-exchange/

To have funds sent into your account from overseas the below fees will be charged:

Acceptance of payments in a foreign currency for SWIFT transfer into your account: $10.00 AUD
Acceptance of payment in AUD currency for SWIFT transfer into your account: $2.00 AUD
What should I use as the official name of this financial institution?

Often when you are setting up a new direct debit arrangement, you'll be asked to provide some details. For Up, these are those details:

Branch Name: Up Money / Bendigo and Adelaide Bank
Address: Bendigo Centre, Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550
Account title: Your account title is your full name

What device features does Up support?

How Up works with your devices.

What smartphones does Up support?

Up currently supports the following devices:

iOS 13.4 or later, on Apple devices.
Android 6.0 or later, on Android devices.

For your security, and for the best experience on the Upside, we’d recommend keeping automatic app updates on, and your app up to date!

Does Up support Apple Pay, Google Pay, Samsung Pay and other digital wallets?

We certainly do! With Up, you can pay the way you want. You can add your Up card to Apple Pay, Google Pay, Samsung Pay, Garmin Pay and Fitbit Pay.

Does Up support Siri?

Yep. You can use Siri to check your Up account balance, or transfer money into one of your Up Savers. Key phrases for Siri are "Check my bank account", "Transfer $10 to my holiday account" and "Check my bank balance".

Does Up support Touch ID and Face ID?

Yep. Up supports both Touch ID and Face ID. You’ll be prompted to enable Touch ID or Face ID from within Up’s Activity screen, depending on the features your iPhone supports. You can still use a passcode if you prefer.

How do I add my Up card to Apple Pay?

Up supports instant in-app activation of Apple Pay which means there's no need to wait for your Up plastic card to arrive, Up will simply prompt you to add your card to Apple Pay as part of the sign-up process.

If you have an Apple Watch, once you've set it up for your Apple Wallet, you can use the Watch app on your iPhone to install Up and we'll walk you through the setup process. Our watch app also works standalone over LTE (if you have your eSim enabled).

If you choose not to set up Apple Pay during sign-up, you can still enable Apple Pay within the Card section of the Up menu. Simply tap "Setup Apple Pay". These in-app set up methods for Apple Pay are automated and do not require you to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually.

If you choose to set up Apple Pay via Apple Wallet (from outside of the Up app) you will be required to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually. Therefore the automated methods are recommended.

How do I add my Up card to Google Pay?

Up supports instant in-app activation of Google Pay which means there's no need to wait for your Up plastic card to arrive, Up will simply prompt you to add your card to Google Pay as part of the sign-up process.

If you choose not to set up Google Pay during sign-up, you can still enable Google Pay within the Card section of the Up menu. Simply tap "Setup Google Pay". These in-app set up methods for Google Pay are automated and do not require you to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually.

If you choose to set up Google Pay via Google Pay App (from outside of the Up app) please first make sure your physical card has been activated. You will be required to scan your Up card, or enter your details manually. Therefore the automated methods are recommended.

Does Up support Apple Watch?

We do indeed! If you have an Apple Watch, use the Watch app on your iPhone to install Up and we'll walk you through the setup process. Our watch app also works standalone over LTE (if you have your eSim enabled).

Does Up work well with VoiceOver and TalkBack?

Yep. We aim to make all features easy to use with assistive technologies, Talk to Us if you have any issues with this.

Does Up work across multiple devices?

Yep. You can access and operate your Up account on all of your devices at the same time.

To keep everything running smoothly when switching devices, we’d strongly recommend keeping automatic app updates turned on, and your Up app up to date across your devices.

Can I use Apple Pay with EFTPOS?

Yes you can. To set up Apple Pay with EFTPOS first remove and then re-add your Up card from within the Apple Wallet app.

What about my Up card?

The Up app and your debit card.

What type of card will I get with Up?

By default, you’ll get a digital Zap Card which you can use instantly when you sign up. You can also request a beautiful Mastercard® Debit card, if you want a bit of that plastic action. Up plastic cards can take up to 15-20 business days to arrive, depending on the postal service and your location.

It’s worth noting that if your phone supports Apple Pay or Google Pay, you can add your Zap Card to your digital wallet straight away - you can also instantly access the card details within the Up app.

Can I lock, block, or disable my card?

You can temporarily block any of your Up cards at any time!

To temporarily block your card in-app, head to the Up tab > 'Cards' > Select the card you want to block > toggle 'Card Active' off.

To unblock it, just toggle it back on.

Important note: This switch won’t block the ability to use your card via digital wallets like Apple or Google Pay.

How do I activate my Up card?

Activate your Up card simply by selecting the “Activate Card” prompt within the Activity screen. If the “Activate Card” option is not automatically displayed, you can also activate your Up card in the Card section of the Up menu. Simply tap “Activate Card”.

I've lost my Up card

If you can’t find your card, you should lock it straight away. Head to the Up app, then open the Up menu on the far left. Scroll down to the ‘Cards’ section, and tap on your Up Plastic card. Toggle the ‘Card Active’ switch off to temporarily disable your card.

If you can’t find it anywhere and need a new card, head back to Up > Cards > Up Plastic Card and hit ‘Report card as lost, stolen or damaged’ and follow the prompts.

If your card has been lost and you can't access your App please give us a call on 1300 002 258.

My card was stolen!

If you haven't already, head to the Up tab > Card > Toggle off 'Card active'. This will ensure your card is inactive while it’s not physically with you.

Once you're ready to order a new card, head to Up > Cards > Up Plastic Card and hit ‘Report card as lost, stolen or damaged’ and follow the prompts.

If your card has been stolen and you can't access your App please give us a call on 1300 002 258.

I'm running into issues with my card

Sometimes issues can be with the card itself, but other times, it can be the EFTPOS machine or ATM.

Some basic troubleshooting steps for a declining card are:

Head to Up > Cards and tap on the card you’re having issues with. From there, make sure your card is activated, and ‘Card Active’ is toggled on.
Tap into ‘Configure Card’ and make sure no settings there are blocking your transaction.
If you haven’t already, try your card at a few different places to narrow down the problem.

If you notice that your card continues declining at multiple places and your card controls are all on, it could be an indication that the card is damaged.

If you think that’s the case, head to the Card section of the app, where you'll see the option to report your card as damaged.

Don’t hesitate to reach out via Talk To Us in the Up app if you need a hand at all.

What’s the difference between Zap & Plastic cards?

Here's a blog post we prepared earlier 😉

Okay, but what is a Zap card?

Your Zap card is your digital only card - it gives you a set of card details instantly upon sign up or if you need a new card; meaning you can update any bills or subscriptions right away, without waiting for a new card to be delivered. You don’t need to opt-in to a plastic card unless you want one. Your Zap card works online and in your digital wallet, just like a regular plastic card would!

You can read more about our cards here.

How long do cards take to arrive?

Delivery of Up plastic cards can take up to 15-20 business days, depending on your location and the postal service.

Can I get express delivery on my card? How long does it take?

If you need your card in a hurry, we can express post a card to you!

Some key details:

Cards sent via express delivery generally take 2-5 business days to arrive
They can be sent either via Toll Courier or Express Post (Your choice)
There’s a $15 fee for express posting cards.

Reach out to our Support Team via Talk To Us to arrange an express card delivery.

How do I use card controls?

We offer lots of fine-grained control over how your card works.

Just head to the Up tab > Cards menu > Select the card you want to configure > Configure Card.

From here you can change your ATM withdrawal limit, disable contactless purchases, limit online or overseas transactions and more!

For more info, check out Cards & Controls.

My card has been blocked!

No worries! Just reach out in the app via Talk To Us - we’ll be there to help.

If your card has been blocked and you can't access your App please give us a call on 1300 002 258.

So what about different types of accounts?

The accounts Up has on offer.

What are Up Savers?

You can create Savers in Up for each of your life goals by giving them a name and specifying the amount you would like to save. You can instantly create multiple Savers in seconds by simply tapping the plus button and following the prompts. Once activated by making 5 successful physical or digital card purchases in a calendar month, they earn 4.35% p.a up to a combined balance of $1M. Read the full conditions. Your Up Spending account does not earn interest. You can also enable automatic roundups on one of your Savers. Use the edit function on each Saver to disable or activate roundups.

Does Up support joint accounts?

We sure do. Learn more about 2Up - Joint accounts reimagined.

Does Up have home loans?

Absolutely! We’ve got a whole section of our website dedicated to Up Home, ready to answer all your home loan questions! Just click here to go there and take a peek 👀

So, how do I pay my mates?

Payment types and timeframes.

How do I make a payment from my Up account?

You can make a payment from your Up account to other bank accounts by heading to the Payments tab.

Tap the orange ‘+’ then the ‘Pay Someone’ option - this will show your phone contacts who are with Up, and contacts who you have paid previously.

If you want to enter a BSB & Account Number or a PayID, just tap ‘Create New’ in the top right hand corner and follow the prompts!

How long do payments take with Up?

Up supports PayID and Osko for near-instant payments to and from your Up account. Payments should be processed almost instantly by Up, but processing times may vary depending on security delays and payment rules put in place by the other financial institution and/or whether or not they support Osko. Using the standard “Pay Anyone” capability of traditional banks with BSB and Account Number can take up to 1-3 business days, again depending on the other institutions’ processing times and security delays.

Why are my payments sometimes delayed?

First time transfers to new payees or payments made from new devices may be delayed as a security precaution.

If you need to make abnormally large payments to new payees, we recommend that you plan ahead and use a "scheduled transfer" at a specific point in time in the future.

I made a mistake when making a payment

Our Support team are ready to help with any payment queries - just reach out via Talk To Us with as much detail as possible, and we’ll get back to you ASAP.

Using Up Overseas

Make your trip easy.

How do I use my card overseas?

Your Up card is accepted at more than 47 million Mastercard locations all over the globe, so it makes a great travel companion and means you don’t need a travel-specific card.

Once activated, you can use your Up card just as you do in Australia! Just tap, swipe or insert your card as per usual, and we’ll handle the rest behind the scenes.

To read more about travelling with Up, check out our Travel Easy page 🌴

Can I see my balance in local currency while I'm overseas?

Yep! Travel Mode will automatically switch on when you’re using your card overseas, showing your balance in the local currency and in AUD.

You can also switch it on manually at any time by heading to Up > Travel.

Does Up have a currency converter?

We sure do — you can check out our currency converter at any time by heading to Up > Travel and toggling on ‘Travel Mode’.

What's the exchange rate for overseas card purchases?

We'll automatically convert international transactions from the local currency to AUD using the Mastercard exchange rate, with 0% bank fees (when selecting Mastercard). We’ll also automatically show your balance in the local currency once we detect you’re travelling. If you want to turn this on manually, you can head to Up > Travel and turn on “Travel Mode”. You can check out the exchange rate by heading to Up > Travel in the app, or on the Mastercard currency converter website.

When overseas we'd also recommend paying in the local currency as opposed to AUD when given the choice by the EFTPOS terminal. This lets you take advantage of the great exchange rate you get by being an Upsider, instead of the rate the merchant terminal chooses to give you 😊

Can I buy international currency in advance?

At this stage, you can only hold AUD in your Up account.

When making international transactions, we automatically convert the currency in real time. If you’re travelling and start making transactions, we’ll also automatically show your balance in the local currency in your activity feed.

You can check out the rate that will be applied to international card purchases on the Mastercard currency converter website or in the Up App by heading to Up > Travel.

Do I need to set up your Wise integration to use my card overseas?

There’s no need to set up our Wise integration to use your Up card overseas - your card is always ready to go! Our Wise integration is a quick and easy way to send funds internationally.

If you're keen to get started with Wise, head to the Payments tab, tap the orange (+) button, select ‘International Payments’ and follow the prompts.

You can also check out this page for further information on our partnership with Wise.

I'm having trouble with my card whilst overseas

If you’re running into issues with your card overseas, here’s a rapid-fire checklist of things to try:

If you’re using an iPhone, double click the side button and make sure the switch below your Up card in Apple Pay is set to ‘Mastercard’ not ‘eftpos SAV’ - this is because eftpos SAV only works in Australia.
Head to Up > Cards and make sure your Up Plastic card is activated and unblocked.
Jump into the ‘Configure Card’ menu and make sure you don’t have Overseas transactions set to blocked.
Try your card at a couple of different merchants to narrow down the problem

If that doesn't fix things up, reach out via Talk To Us.

If you can’t access your app or it’s outside our Support hours (6am-midnight, Melbourne time) please give us a call on +61 1300 002 258.

But what about...?

Rapid responses to the most common Up queries.

The Up app won’t accept my identification

Send us an email at support@up.com.au

I don’t have suitable ID

You can’t join Up without valid Australian identification documents.

I’m not 18 years old

That’s ok, but you’ll need to be at least 16 years old to get an Up account.

I have tax obligations in another country

No problems. You’ll just need to be an Australian resident and provide your overseas tax information during sign up.

I’m not an Australian resident

Up is only available to people living in Australia.

I forgot my Up passcode

If you get your Up passcode wrong too many times, you can reset it within the Up app. Make sure you have your Up recovery code handy. Your recovery code was emailed to you when you verified your email address after joining Up.

If you don’t have your recovery code, please follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

If this still doesn't work, please email our Account Recovery Experts with your full legal name & mobile number at support@up.com.au.

I suspect fraudulent activity on my Up account

Call 1300 002 258. You can also temporarily disable your Up card. Simply go to the Up menu and select Card. Then toggle the card switch off.

I need to update my personal information

You can update most of your personal information in-app! Just head to Up > Profile and follow the prompts!

If you run into any issues, reach out via Talk To Us

How can I tell you about my overseas travel plans?

There’s no need to tell us about your travel plans! Up accounts come ready to travel.

I got a new phone

Download the Up app, and follow the prompts to set up your new device.

You can also follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

I changed my mobile number

You can change your mobile number by heading to the Up menu, then tapping on Profile. From there, tap your mobile number and enter your new one. If you run into any dramas, let us know using ‘Talk to Us’ in the Up app.

You can also follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

I lost my phone

Provided you haven't shared your passcode, your funds are safe. Get a new phone, then download the Up app, and follow the prompts to set up your new device.

You can also follow our account recovery page for options to recover access to your account.

Why do I get an insecure network error?

From a technical perspective it means that the app cannot negotiate a secure SSL connection to the right server for Up. It can happen when you have a proxy or something that’s getting in the way of the app talking to the Up servers.

What does this mean? Essentially we haven’t been able to verify that your connection is secure and that no one is attempting to decode your app networking traffic while you're using the app. Sometimes this isn't a malicious scenario (eg. company devices/network can have this issue). However, because it's a security related thing, we stop you being able to use the app to protect your data and ours.

Why can’t I link Up with external services?

Up doesn’t use email and password combinations for sharing with external services, keeping access limited to your approved devices. We do offer a Developer API for personal use, and are fully accredited for Open Banking.

Open Banking is an agreed & regulated way for all banks to enable their customers to safely share data with third parties, such as lenders & other budgeting apps. You can read more about Open Banking here.

If a third party is accredited with Open Banking, they'll be listed here 👉 https://www.cdr.gov.au/find-a-provider and you'll be able to share your data with them securely.

Statements?

Our statements are completely paperless! To access your current and previous monthly statements including proof of balance, tap into ‘Statements’ from under the ‘Up’ tab.

I need an interest summary for my tax

Interest summary statements showing all interest earned will show up on July 5, at the beginning of a new financial year. You can find them under Statements from the Up menu.

How do I get my Personal Access Token?

Your Personal Access Token allows you to securely access your personal data. You can read more about it here.

To claim your Personal Access Token, head over to Up > “Data Sharing” > tap the “Personal Access Token” button and follow the prompts.

Make sure you copy the token and store it somewhere safe before you exit out of that part of the app.

If you ever want to revoke your token in the future, you can do it from the same menu!

Can I log in on my computer? Does Up have a web version?

We’re currently a mobile-only product, but we’re continuing to explore alternative interfaces for Upsiders.

Do I need to “log out” of the app?

There’s no need to log out of your app when you’re done - any important action requires that you authenticate yourself first.

If you’re not comfortable with this, we do have a ‘Require Log In’ feature.

You can turn this on in the Up tab > Security > toggle on ‘Require Log In’.

Toggling this on will require you to log into the app upon opening, and automatically ‘lock’ the app after you close it.

Can I apply for an overdraft?

At this stage, we don't offer overdraft facilities on Up accounts.

Anything else

Send us an email at support@up.com.au, or ask us in ‘Talk to Us’ in the Up app (if you’re already an Up customer).

Afterpay

Learn about connecting Up with Afterpay.

How do I connect to Afterpay?

Find an Afterpay payment in your activity and tap the transaction. On the receipt page you'll have the option to connect to Afterpay. This will take you to the Afterpay website where you can login and give Up permission to access your Afterpay payment data.

What does connecting to Afterpay do?

Once you've connected to Afterpay any Afterpay transactions in your activity feed will be updated to show the actual merchant you transacted with. Tapping on a transaction will show the amount and number of payments remaining and most often the items you purchased. In the Upcoming screen we'll show you all your future Afterpay payments and give you a reminder a couple of days out from each payment.

Why do some of my transactions still just show up as Afterpay only?

If you have made all four Afterpay payments before you connect to Afterpay from Up we cannot currently show detailed information for those purchases. We're working to improve this in the future.

What about Afterpay purchases made with other cards?

We only show Afterpay payments initiated with your Up card. If you add your Up card to purchases currently in progress we will show any new payments in Up, but are not able to show these in Upcoming. We're working to improve this in the future.

Complaints, Disputes & Hardship

What you can do if something's not going right

Have a complaint?

While we hope you never get to this point, if you do have a complaint to make, we need to hear it. The best place to start is using "Talk to Us" in the Up app. You can also call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au. We will promptly investigate your complaint and notify you of the outcome. If you are not satisfied with the response provided, you may refer your complaint directly to our External Dispute Resolution scheme (see section 21.5 of the Up Terms and Conditions). You can learn more about how we manage complaints here.

Need to dispute a transaction?

If you'd like to dispute a transaction, please let us know the transaction details using "Talk to Us" in the Up app. We will work through our standard dispute process to try and recover your money. Please keep in mind when raising chargebacks we are governed by scheme rules which provide guidelines we must follow for these to be considered valid. In some circumstances, we may need to re-issue your card to prevent additional disputed transactions. If you are unable to dispute a transaction using Talk to Us, you can also call us on 1300 002 258.

Experiencing financial hardship?

Personal circumstances change all the time. This is part of life, even if it is not always easy. We’re here to help. If you’re experiencing financial hardship, there are a number of ways we may be able to assist you. Please reach out in-app via "Talk to Us". You can also call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au.

Additionally, there’s a number of services available to you who may also be able to help:

The National Debt Helpline have easy to use, step-by-step guides on how to tackle debts - ndh.org.au . You can also call the National Debt Helpline on 1800 007 007 to talk to a financial counsellor for free, independent advice about your situation.
Financial Counselling Australia will help you find a financial counselling agency in your area - www.financialcounsellingaustralia.org.au
ASIC’s ‘MoneySmart’ website provides information and tools to help you make the most of your money - www.moneysmart.gov.au
The ABA’s ‘Financial Hardship’ website can help know what to do if you are experiencing financial difficulties, how your bank can help, where to go for more information and how to apply for help - www.ausbanking.org.au/resource/resource.pdf
The CreditSmart website has information on managing debt and hardship assistance - www.creditsmart.org.au/financial-hardship
Experiencing financial abuse?

Financial abuse occurs when one person manipulates another to control their finances and property without their consent. It can happen to anyone, no matter how old, or how much money they have. We recognise that it may be difficult for you to seek assistance. If you feel you're in a financially abusive situation, please do not hesitate to speak to any member of our staff. The best place to start is using "Talk to Us" in the Up app. You can also call us on 1300 002 258 or e-mail us at support@up.com.au.

Scams

Keeping yourself and your finances safe from fraud and scams.

I think I'm being scammed!

Firstly, stop and take a deep breath. Then, check out our Scam Self-Defence Guide. Scams often start from a phone call, email, social media or SMS – Our guide is designed to show you how to identify common scams and how to protect yourself.

If you’re ever concerned or unsure, don't hesitate, contact us directly via Talk To Us. Don’t get pressured into making a payment or taking other action in the meantime.

Some additional resources that may be helpful:

Scamwatch - How to spot and avoid scams
IDCare
The Australian Cyber Security Centre

It’s also super important to remember that Up or Bendigo Bank will never ask you to share your Up Passcode or Recovery Code.

Deceased estate, power of attorney & guardianship questions

At Up, we understand that this is a difficult time for you. There are a number of ways we can assist.

Have a deceased estate, power of attorney or guardianship question?

At Up, we understand that this is a difficult time for you. Among all the important things to take care of when a loved one passes away, having to sort through bank matters is another thing to add to the list. If you find yourself in this situation there are a number of ways we may be able to assist you, please get in touch with us by calling on 1300 002 258 or e-mailing us at support@up.com.au.

Closing your account

How to close your account.

Want to close your account?

To close your individual account in-app, head to the Up tab > 'Close Up account' and follow the prompts.

From here, there are a few things to do before your account closure can be finalised. Firstly, you'll need to have a balance of $0 in your Up Spending and Savers accounts. You'll also need to make sure you don't have an active 2Up account (this needs to be closed first, see below for more information) or an active Up Home loan.

To close a 2Up Account, either Player can just head to the 'Up' tab > 'Profiles' > 'Close 2Up Account'. Like your individual account, before the account can be closed, all funds need to be transferred out of the account. If either Player changes their mind, you have 24 hours to cancel the closure.

The in-app prompts will walk you through each step but if you have any questions, just reach out to our friendly Support crew via Talk to us and we'll help you out.

Does Up have joint accounts?

2Up - A new way to join financial forces.

What is 2Up?

No more lists on the fridge or ‘you pay rent and I’ll get the shopping’. 2Up is a simpler way to share expenses. It’s easy to set up and close down, and gives you tools to pay together while keeping your own financial life, completely your own.

Read all about it here.

How do I invite my Player 2?

Tap the 2Up banner on your Up tab to invite your Player 2

If your Player 2 isn’t an Upsider, send them an invite through Hook Up a Mate first.

Can I make a payment with my 2Up? How about direct debits, BPay or Scheduled & Repeating payments?

At release, you will be able to use all the regular Up payment features except payment requests, pay splitting, and International payments.

International payments have to be linked to individual Wise account holders, so you’ll need to use your own Up account for those.

Does this mean my Player 2 sees everything I do?

You will both see every purchase made on your 2Up Spending account, and each purchase will show who bought what. If you contact our Support team, you can choose to both be included in the chat.

And of course, your own Up accounts are completely your own. Neither of you can see, smell or touch the other person’s main Up account.

Can I have two or three accounts? Can I add my whole family?

At this point, 2Up is for two Upsiders only, and each Upsider can be part of one 2Up at a time. Shared accounts (for more than two people) are planned for the future.

So if you had a 2Up with your flatmate you’ll need to shut it down before you make a fresh account with your new Player 2.

What if my Player 2 empties our 2Up and takes off to a tropical island?

You both have full access to spend, transfer or make payments with money in 2Up without requiring permission from each other..

It's important you only join 2Up with someone you know well and trust. Only add money to 2Up you're happy for either of you to spend.

Does Up pay interest on 2Up accounts?

Your 2Up Everyday account is a spending account and does not earn interest. 2Up Savers are eligible to earn bonus interest once unlocked. Purchases made using your 2Up Everyday account contribute to the five transactions needed to unlock bonus interest repayments across both your personal Up Savers and on 2Up Savers. So if between you and your 2Up you make five purchases, you’ll both earn interest on your private Up Savers and 2Up Savers.

At present, Up Savers pay up to 4.35% p.a. for up to $1M in deposits in your Up Savers as well as $1M in your 2Up Savers.

Read the full conditions on our pricing page.

Is it a big deal to close a 2Up?

As soon as your 2Up is empty and all 2Up Savers have been closed, either one of you can close it. Just a few taps and you’re a lone ranger once more.

Slice, Slice, Baby

Slice any purchase or payment with your mates on Up.

What if my mates aren’t all on Up?

First of all, Hook them Up with the world’s snazziest orange banking solution. If they aren’t yet on the Up train, you’ll have to go old school. Cover their share and get your cash in the car park.

What if they don’t pay me back right away?

Up sends repeating requests so you don’t have to. If they keep ignoring those requests, maybe they’re just not a good mate. We’re really sorry, you’re worth more than that. A mate of ours likes to lend $50 to people he never wants to see again and considers it well spent. Hope this sorta helps.

How many people can I slice a bill with?

We’re working with 20 for now. That… should be enough?? Go get it you party animal.

Can I slice 2Up transactions?

Not at the moment. We’re starting with regular-flavoured Up accounts. More awesome tooling is coming as we grow.

What should we get Grandma for her birthday?

Fancy gin, a ridiculously comfy throw that matches her couch, and some quality time cause she loves you and honestly she really just wants to know what you’re up to.

Maybuy, maybuy not

Buy things you actually love, with money you actually have.

Can I put more money towards a Maybuy?

Sure can! To add more money to an active Maybuy, swipe down on your Activity feed for ‘Quick Actions’, then tap ‘Transfer’.

Then, select your Maybuy and transfer your desired amount.

Future scheduled saves will adjust automatically to include your manual top-up.

Do Maybuys earn interest?

Absolutely!

Each Maybuy is its own Saver, so once you’ve activated the bonus rate for the month, you’ll earn interest as you would on any other Saver 💸

Maybuy with my 2Up?

You can absolutely Maybuy with your Player 2 👭

During setup, before locking in ‘amount of saves’, you can ✔️ the ‘save with $Player2’ checkbox and each save will come from your 2Up Spending account.

Can I Maybuy a whole cart from a single store?

That would be pretty awesome. Right now though it’s just individual items.

How many Maybuys can I have?

That depends. Each Maybuy is its own Saver, and you can have a total of 50 Savers with Up.

So, just as an example, say you already had 15 Savers, you’d be able to create 35 Maybuys before you maxed out at 50 💪

What if the item was sold out or a different price when I was ready to buy?

Maybuys don’t reserve or purchase the item for you like a Buy Now Pay Later service would. (But also nobody but you has your money). Think of Maybuy as a Saver, with the primary focus on helping you save for something on your own terms, with your own funds.

Locked Savers

Remove the weight of self‑control.

Can I lock a 2Up Saver?

You sure can! Either Player can lock or unlock 2Up Locked Savers 🔐

Does a locked Saver earn interest?

Sure does!

Once you’ve activated the bonus interest rate, a locked Saver will earn interest like any other Saver 💪

How many Savers can I lock?

There’s no limit to the amount of Savers you can lock down.

You can have a maximum of 50 active Savers, all of which can be locked 🔒

Can I still use Auto Transfers?

Auto-transfers in and out of a locked Saver are absolutely possible, but there are a few limitations.

Firstly, you can’t set up a new Auto-transfer in or out without unlocking it first 🔓

If you set up an Auto-transfer before locking a Saver, it’ll continue to be scheduled as usual 💪

Changing the date & amount of an Auto Transfer while a Saver is locked isn’t possible, but you can pause or delete it if need be. However, if you’ve paused it, you’ll need to unlock the Saver to make changes again.

What if I ask a friend for faster access and they don't respond?

Good question.

If your nominated Upsider doesn’t respond to your request to unlock the Saver early, you’ll need to wait for the 3 hours to elapse.

Save Up 1000

Now is your time to shine. Saving $1,000 in a year is your challenge and Up is on your team.

What if I have a big week and I can't save anything?

You can change up this challenge, switching between big saving weeks, little weeks, and the odd mini break when you need it. Mum would say it's a marathon not a sprint and she's pretty wise. Cut yourself some slack and start again.

How does Save Up 1000 work with mates?

Turn on social sharing (on by default) to let your contacts on Up see you’re in the challenge. Who’ll level up first? Let's find out. We'll also add you to a Class so you can track yourself against other anonymous Upsiders.

Or turn it off to play this game on your own, cause your dreams don't have to be for anyone but you.

What should I save up for?

$1000 could be your first emergency fund; return tickets to Bali; the foster doggo you've always wanted (with accessories) or the start of a lifetime savings habit. Who knows? The sky's the limit so go forth you good thing and save.

(If you get a puppy please send pics).

Happy Hour

Pay on Up for a chance to win cash back on your end of week food & drinks.

Can I play Happy Hour more than once?

Your first eligible purchase ($10 or more) made between 5-7pm on a Friday will go into the draw to be selected for a chance to play. Happy Hour runs every Friday 5-7pm, so you can enter once every week!

My favourite spot is not in the ‘Restaurants & Cafes’ or ‘Pubs & Bars’ category

If the merchant isn’t yet to be identified, you can identify them in-app by tapping into the purchase. If they’re already identified but don’t fall under the eligible categories, shoot our Support team a message in-app and they’ll take a look to see if we can help.

How old do I need to be to play?

Happy Hour is open to all Upsiders, 16 years and over.

Do my mates need to be on Up to boost my potential prize?

Nope! Any of your mates can boost your potential prize by scanning your QR code. Make sure you let them know that after they give you a boost, they can get a $10 gift if they sign up with Up.

I missed my Happy Hour notification! Now what?

Dang! If you’ve missed your Happy Hour notification, you’ll have to try again next Friday between 5-7pm. Keep your eyes peeled.

Can I opt out of Happy Hour forever?

Yep! Just shoot our Support team a message in-app via the Talk to Us tab and they’ll sort that out for you.

Unable to access the Up app?

The fastest way to get access to your account is to read our account recovery guide. If you're still having trouble, email our Account Recovery Experts with your full legal name & mobile number at support@up.com.au.

National Relay Service

Users who are deaf or have hearing or speech impairment can call through the National Relay Service:

TTY: users phone 133 677 then ask for 1300 002 258
Internet relay: users connect to the National Relay Service and then ask for 1300 002 258
Speak and Listen (speech-to-speech relay): users connect to the National Relay Service and then ask for 1300 002 258
Card lost or stolen?

For your protection please give us a call on 1300 002 258 as soon as possible to let us know your card has been lost or stolen or if you’re seeing unauthorised charges on your account. If you're overseas, please use +61 1300 002 258.

=== the-upgrader_.txt ===

D'oh! It's time for an update.

We've got something cool to show you, but you're on an old version of the app. Tap below to head to your app store and update to the latest version.

=== tmds_.txt ===

Target Market Determinations

To ensure you're ending up with financial products designed for your needs, we've put together some Target Market Determinations (TMDs) in accordance with the Treasury Laws Amendment (Design and Distribution Obligations and Product Intervention Powers) Act (Cth) 2019.

TMDs explain:

the people this product was designed for,
our obligations around distributing the product,
when this TMD will be reviewed, and
recording keeping and reporting obligations.

TMDs are not intended to provide financial advice. When making a decision about a product always make sure you refer to the Terms and Conditions and any supplementary document(s). These will outline the relevant terms and conditions being provided under that product.

Here you can find TMDs for:

Up & 2Up Savers
Up & 2Up Everyday Accounts
Up Owner Occupied Home Loan principal and interest - fixed rate
Up Owner Occupied Home Loan principal and interest - variable rate

If you choose to use join Wise using the integration in the Up app, you will also need to be aware of the Wise Target Market Determination issued by Wise Australia Pty Ltd.

=== tmds_up-everyday-account-tmd_.txt ===

Target Market Determination For Up Everyday Account (UPDDA)

Product

This target market determination (TMD) applies to the Up Everyday Account.

Issuer

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL / ACL 237879 (Bendigo Bank).

Date from which this target market determination is effective

5 October 2021.

1. Target market for this product

Target Market

The retail clients for whom this product has been designed are individuals who:

want a fully digital transaction account for personal or domestic purposes;
will deposit or pay funds into the account that they can draw against;
want access to their funds on demand;
want the ability to make and receive payments frequently through one of the payment methods offered in connection with the account.

Product Description

An Up Everyday Account is a low-cost fully digital transaction account that allows a retail client to access their funds on demand. Retail clients can also make and receive payments through payment facilities offered in connection with the account (including electronic transfers available through the Up App, BPAY, Debit Mastercard, direct debits). There is no cheque or bankbranch access for this account. This means retail clients cannot make cash or other withdrawals from the account in a bank branch except by using a card at an ATM.

Product key attributes

The key attributes of this product that make it likely to be consistent with the target market described above, include:

Attribute	Appropriate for
Eligibility	This product is only available to retail clients who are individuals aged 16 years or older.
Access funds on demand	Retail clients can access their funds, and make and receive payments, through multiple payments methods on demand (including BPAY, Bank@Post, Pay Anyone, direct debit and Debit Mastercard). Funds can only be electronically deposited into the account . This product may not be suitable for retail clients who want a transaction account with cheque access.
Fully digital transaction account	Retail clients who want a fully digital bank account. The Up Everyday Account can only be accessed through the Up App. This product may not be suitable for customers who want branch or face-to-face support.
No monthly services fees	Retail clients that do not want to pay monthly service fees.
No interest on deposits	No interest is earned on the funds deposited in the account.
Overdrawing account not permitted	Retail clients who do not want an overdraft facility on their account. If the account becomes overdrawn for any reason, fees and interest on the overdrawn amount may be charged.
Up App	Retail clients who want to access their account, perform transactions and have access to other features and benefits related to their account (e.g. ability to track spending) through an App on their mobile phone or other device.
2. How this product is to be distributed

Bendigo Bank applies certain conditions and restrictions to the distribution of this product so that distribution is likely to be to retail clients within the target market for this product. The conditions and restrictions are:

Channel	

This product is to be distributed only through the following channels:

Online through the Up App available on Apple and Android App stores.

Additional conditions or restrictions	

The following additional conditions and restrictions also apply to the distribution of this product:

Only prospective retail clients who are individuals and meet Bendigo Bank’s minimum eligibility criteria for the product should submit an application for this product;
This product can only be issued to retail clients after applying Bendigo Bank’s application and assessment processes; and
This product can only be issued (or arranged to be issued) by persons who are trained and accredited.
3. Reviewing this target market determination

Bendigo Bank will review this TMD as set out below:

Initial review	

Within the first year of the effective date.


Periodic reviews	

At least every 12 months from the initial review.


Review triggers or events	

Any event or circumstances arising that would reasonably suggest the TMD is no longer appropriate. This may include (but is not limited to):

a material change to the design or distribution of the product, including related documentation;
occurrence of a significant dealing;
distribution conditions found to be inadequate in ensuring that the product is issued to retail clients who are likely to be in the target market;
relevant changes in the law or its application, a change in an industry code or decision of a court or other body (including through regulatory guidance) that materially affects the product;
significant changes in metrics, including, but not limited to:
a material increase in the number of complaints in relation to a product or aspect of a product;
an increase in early termination of the product; and
any other event occurs, or information is received that reasonably suggests this TMD is no longer appropriate.

Where a review trigger has occurred, this TMD will be reviewed within 10 business days.

4. Reporting and monitoring this target market determination

Bendigo Bank’s third-party distributors who are regulated persons will need to collect, keep and report the following information to Bendigo Bank:

Type	Description of information	Frequency of reporting
Complaints	

Customer complaints made in relation to this product. This includes:

written details of the complaint; and
the number of complaints during the reporting period.
	

Reporting period: Monthly

When does the regulated person have to report: Within 10 business days of the end of the reporting period.


Sales data	

Sales and customer data in relation to this product as requested by Bendigo Bank.

	

Reporting period: Monthly

When does the regulated person have to report: Within 10 business days of the end of the reporting period.


Significant dealings	

The following information:

details of the significant dealing;
the date (or range) on which the significant dealing occurred;
why the distributor considers the dealing to be significant (including why it is inconsistent with this TMD); and
how the dealing was identified.
	

When does the regulated person have to report: Within 10 business days of the distributor becoming aware of the dealing.
