Credit Guide

Last updated 15 July 2024

About this Credit Guide

This document is the Credit Guide of Up, a division of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited (ABN 11 068 049 178) (Bendigo and Adelaide Bank).

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank is a credit provider and a holder of Australian Credit Licence number 237879.

This Credit Guide has been designed to provide you with key information, so you are informed and aware of necessary matters prior to deciding to use the credit services of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank for Up credit products.

This Credit Guide may be provided to you by authorised staff of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank (including Up) as soon as practicable after it becomes apparent to us that we are likely to enter into a contract with you.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank takes responsibility under its Australian Credit Licence for the credit activities engaged in on its behalf and its authorised staff or its credit representatives.

Up is a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank.

The Up software application is provided by Up Money Pty Ltd, a subsidiary of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. Bendigo and Adelaide Bank is the issuer of the Up branded banking and financial products provided through the Up app and the credit provider for credit products provided through the Up app.

Throughout this Credit Guide references to:

“entering into a contract” means entering into a credit contract or consumer lease or increasing the credit limit of an existing credit contract or consumer lease.

“we”, “us”, or “our” are references to Bendigo and Adelaide Bank, and Up as a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank. References to "our staff" and “our branch staff” have a corresponding meaning.

Contact details
You can contact us:
“Talk to Us” in the Up App (general enquiries)
Telephone 1300 557 155
Credit Assessment of your loan application
Before entering into a contract, Bendigo and Adelaide Bank will perform a credit assessment. This assessment will include making enquiries about:
your objectives and requirements including the purpose of the credit; and
your financial situation.

We will also take reasonable steps to verify your financial information.

The purpose of the credit assessment is to ensure, based on the information provided, that the proposed contract, is not unsuitable for you.

The contract is unsuitable for you, if at the time the contract is entered into:

it is likely that you will not be able to comply with the financial obligations under the contract or you could only comply with substantial hardship; or
the contract does not meet your objectives and requirements.

The contract will create a substantial hardship if you would only be able to meet the requirements of the contract by selling your principal place of residence.

We cannot enter into a contract which is unsuitable for you. This is a legal requirement for Bendigo and Adelaide Bank.

It is important that the information that you provide for this assessment regarding your financial situation, objectives and requirements is complete and accurate and includes any likely future changes that will impact your ability to repay the contract.

Final Assessment

If your contract is assessed as not unsuitable and you will enter or have already entered into the contract with us, you have a right to ask us for a written copy of the Final Assessment.

The Final Assessment will contain the factual information which we used to assess the contract as not unsuitable including:

the record of financial information you have given us;
the information about your objectives and requirements;
the enquiries we have undertaken to verify your financial situation;
details of a contract we have offered to you.

You should notify us immediately if the information in the Final Assessment is not correct or has changed.

You can request a copy of the Final Assessment at any time before entering into the contract. If you make such a request, we have to provide you a written copy of the Final Assessment before entering the contract. We cannot enter into the contract, until we provide you with a copy of the Final Assessment.

You are also able to request a written copy of the Final Assessment at any time up until seven years after the contract was entered into. If you request the Final Assessment within two years of the contract being entered into, the assessment must be supplied to you within seven business days. If you request the Final Assessment beyond two years but less than seven years, the assessment must be supplied to you within 21 business days. There is no charge for the supply of the Final Assessment.

Resolving complaints

We consider Internal Dispute Resolution (IDR) to be an important and necessary first step in the complaint handling process it gives us an opportunity to hear when we do not meet our customer’s expectations and address them genuinely and effectively.

You can raise your complaint with us by:

Telephoning 1300 941 461 (specialised home loan applications team)
Telephone 1300 002 258 (Up Support team)
“Talk to us” in the Up App

If you are not satisfied with the outcome of a complaint, the Customer Feedback Team is able to assist. You can contact the Customer Feedback Team by:

Telephoning 1300 361 911 - 8.30am – 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT), Monday to Friday
Emailing feedback@bendigoadelaide.com.au
By completing the relevant Customer Feedback form online or sending a letter to the

Customer Feedback Team,
Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited,
Reply Paid 480, Bendigo VIC 3552

Alternatively you may refer your complaint directly to the appropriate External Dispute Resolution scheme.

We are a member of the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (AFCA). You can contact AFCA at:

Australian Financial Complaints Authority
GPO Box 3
Melbourne VIC 3001


Telephone: 1800 931 678
Email: info@afca.org.au
Web: www.afca.org.au

Time limits may apply to refer a complaint to AFCA and so you should act promptly or otherwise consult the AFCA website to find out if, or when the time limit relevant to your circumstances expires.

If your complaint relates to how we handle your personal information you can also contact the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner (OAIC):

GPO Box 5218
Sydney NSW 2001


Telephone: 1300 363 992
Email: enquiries@oaic.gov.au
Web: www.oaic.gov.au


Financial Difficulty

We understand there may be times when your personal circumstances change. Perhaps you have lost your job, suffered an illness or injury or have been impacted by a natural disaster.

If as a result you cannot afford the minimum repayment on your home loan, personal loan or credit card, and you would like us to consider if we can provide you with financial difficulty assistance, then please contact us immediately.

In many instances a temporary arrangement can be made quickly and efficiently over the phone.

Alternatively we may need to complete a more detailed assessment of your personal and financial circumstances to identify how we may be able to help you.

If you would like to apply for assistance, including a request for postponement of enforcement proceedings, please contact Bendigo and Adelaide Bank’s dedicated Mortgage Help team on the below details:

Telephone: 1800 652 146 - between 8.00 am and 5.00pm (AEST/AEDT), Monday to Friday
Fax: (03) 5485 7631
Email: MortgageHelpRetail@BendigoAdelaide.com.au

If you are not satisfied with the outcome of your request for assistance, you may choose to contact our external resolution provider, the Australian Financial Complaints Authority (refer section titled ‘Resolving complaints’ for details).

Download the Up Credit Guide (PDF)