It’s our responsibility to do better.

Caring about the planet isn’t a choice, it’s our responsibility.

At Up, we’re digital by design, and although having a small physical footprint has a positive impact on the environment, that’s not enough for us.

Our card strategy is

Digital First

Almost all of our comms are digital, but if you’re after a physical card, you’ll need to opt-in — we don’t send them out by default.

In 2022, we introduced environmentally friendly physical cards for 2Up joint accounts (forged from 82% recycled materials) alongside our digital ‘Zap’ cards — zero plastic and less stress on the environment.

We are

Carbon Neutral

We’re only just getting started, but by reducing our emissions as well as maintaining a carbon neutral certification since 2022, we’re on a positive trajectory that we’re proud to hang our hat on.

We don’t lend to

Fossil Fuels

Lending to fossil fuel projects is not an idea we entertain — this includes providing finance directly to projects or large scale electricity generation in coal, coal seam gas, crude oil and natural gas.

We don’t support

Native Forest Logging

Alongside our parents, Bendigo & Adelaide Bank, we don’t lend to native forest logging projects.

Our Environmental Commitments

We contribute to
Aussie Environmental Innovations.

The waste created in our everyday lives deserves serious consideration, but what steps can we take to make sure it doesn't end up in our oceans?

Well, our mates over at Seabin are doing an incredible job of tackling this issue, and we're proud to support them via our own Seabin unit in Manly, Sydney.

Litres of water filtered
for microplastics

Each month, we report on the microplastic and marine litter data our Seabin captures, and we’ll continue to support Seabin on their journey to improve the health of our oceans.

Learn More About Seabin

The waste created in our everyday lives deserves serious consideration, but what steps can we take to make sure it doesn't end up in our oceans?

Well, our mates over at Seabin are doing an incredible job of tackling this issue, and we're proud to support them via our own Seabin unit in Manly, Sydney.

Plastic items captured daily

Total marine litter captured

We want to hear from you

Who should we support next?

If you’re a part of our community, we want you to feel confident that your money is used for good. Got a great initiative you think we should get behind? We want to hear from you.

partnerships@up.com.au