Financial Claims Scheme

Money held in your Up Everyday Account or Up Savers accounts are deposits with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited and count up to the FCS limit that applies together with any other deposits you have with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited.

What is the Financial Claims Scheme?

The Financial Claims Scheme (FCS) is an Australian Government scheme that provides protection and quick access to deposits in banks, building societies and credit unions in the unlikely event that one of these financial institutions fails.

Under the FCS, certain deposits are protected up to a limit of $250,000 for each account holder at any bank, building society, credit union or other authorised deposit-taking institution (ADI) that is incorporated in Australia and authorised by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA).

The FCS can only come into effect if it is activated by the Australian Government when an institution fails. Once activated, the FCS will be administered by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA).

In an FCS scenario, APRA would aim to pay the majority of customers their protected deposits under the Scheme within seven calendar days.

How is the FCS limit applied?

The FCS limit of $250,000 applies to the sum of an account holder’s deposits held with a single banking institution.

Therefore, all deposits held by an account holder with a single banking institution must be added together towards the $250,000 FCS limit, and this includes accounts with any other banking businesses that the licenced banking institution may operate under a different trading name.

Money held in your Up Everyday Account or Up Savers accounts are deposits with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited and count up to the FCS limit that applies together with any other deposits you have with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited.

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited’s network of brands and joint ventures provide a wide range of products and services, and those that are covered by the FCS are Bendigo Bank, Adelaide Bank, Community Bank, Rural Bank, and Up Bank. Therefore, the $250,000 limit will apply to the aggregate balance of any eligible accounts held across these brands and joint ventures.

Where can I get further information on the FCS?

Further information on the FCS is available on the FCS website. The APRA website also contains a list of FAQ’s relating to banking.