Easy With Mates
Get Purchases Perfectly Sliced
Slice any purchase or payment with your mates on Up.
It’s the easiest way to share a shop or a good night out. More treats. Less hassle.

Everyone’s Slice is split quick and sent pronto. No manual BS, no bank details.

Slice a purchase and put out the call. Up will keep records and send the reminders.

Any purchase, any payment. Slice a shop for 3 or 20. Adjust by $ amounts or shares.

Play a payments power move.
Slice up the cost with anyone on Up.

Tickets, rent, bills or drinks. Mother’s Day treats or flowers for a friend. Instantly Slice up the price by dollars, percent, or equal shares.

Pay with Up

Make your purchase. You’re the hero, sorting out the bill.

But you’re not paying alone, so tap on the charge and hit ‘Slice this purchase’.

You’ll be whisked away to pick from a fine selection of premium Upsider mates.

Choose who you’ll split this purchase with.

Spin those Splits

Equal shares are the default, but you can add extra for the mate who drinks like a fish; split by percentages, or lock a smaller amount for a mate who’s short.

Personalise your splits with a message or a GIF. Your mates can tap to pay you back pronto, or knock it back if it doesn’t feel right.

(And if they get distracted, Up will keep them on the clock with reminders).

Keep an Eye on the Kitchen

Your pizza progress chart will fill as more money rolls in.

Check back any time to see your Slices’ status; how close you are to being totally repaid, and frankly which mate is the quickest payer-backer. We’re not saying it’s a competition but it is.

The Big Questions
What if my mates aren’t all on Up?

First of all, Hook them Up with the world’s snazziest orange banking solution. If they aren’t yet on the Up train, you’ll have to go old school. Cover their share and get your cash in the car park.

What if they don’t pay me back right away?

Up sends repeating requests so you don’t have to. If they keep ignoring those requests, maybe they’re just not a good mate. We’re really sorry, you’re worth more than that. A mate of ours likes to lend $50 to people he never wants to see again and considers it well spent. Hope this sorta helps.

How many people can I slice a bill with?

We’re working with 20 for now. That… should be enough?? Go get it you party animal.

Can I slice 2Up transactions?

Not at the moment. We’re starting with regular-flavoured Up accounts. More awesome tooling is coming as we grow.

What should we get Grandma for her birthday?

Fancy gin, a ridiculously comfy throw that matches her couch, and some quality time cause she loves you and honestly she really just wants to know what you’re up to.

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 