FEATURES: PAY DAY

Breeze Between
Pay Days

Pay day is a great day. But what if every day could feel as great?

Set up Pay Day and always see what you can safely spend while making sure you have enough money left for your Upcoming bills and budgets.

Leave living pay-to-pay behind. Get your pay pumped into Up and see your financial life through your pay cycle.

Keep on top with what you’ve got.

Now available for 2Up.

Switch to spendable balance

Spendable balance is your financial safety net, an in-app smart switcher built into your Activity feed which enables you to switch between your ‘Available’ (the funds in your spending account) and your ‘Spendable’ balance (the funds in your spending account minus your upcoming expenses). In other words, Spendable balance shows you the amount you can safely spend before your next pay day.

Looking after future you

Spendable balance does the maths and calculates exactly how much you’ll need to care of your Upcoming bills until your next pay day. It also now considers all of your future upcoming bills. Enabling Spendable Balance will set aside and reserve cash each pay cycle for future upcoming bills, storing away a little bit extra to take care of those bigger bills you have waiting for you in a few months time so you won’t get caught off guard.

See what’s Upcoming, One Pay at a Time

Set up Pay Day and pay all of your Upcoming bills through Up for total pay cheque to pay cheque clarity.

See exactly what bills and transfers are are due between the days you get paid. Switch your expected charge balance from monthly to ‘pay cycle’ to always keep on top of your most important commitments.

With your bills taken care of you’re left to relax and wait for Pay Day to roll in again.

Learn how Upcoming Bills works
Set Up
Pay Day
Get Paid Into Up

Have a chat to your employer and get your salary sent straight in, or pay yourself regularly from another account into Up.

Set Up Your Pay Day

Let us know exactly when your pay day rolls around. Add your pay day from the Upcoming screen in the app.

Pay Your Bills Through Up

When you use Up to pay your bills or make regular payments like rego or rent, we’ll detect it and add it to your Upcoming list. With Pay Day enabled, your Upcoming list bends to fit your schedule so you can easily see what's due before your next pay day.

Switch To Spendable Balance

With your Pay Day set up and upcoming bills understood, we can let you know how much of your balance you can actually spend before you’re next paid.

Keep your budget precise from pay to pay

Now that your Pay is getting deposited into Up, fly between pay days with some extra tools to keep you financially fit.

Pay Splitting lets you carve up your pay into a bunch of different Savers as soon as it hits your account, and before you get a chance to spend it.

Use Trackers on any spending category to keep your spending steady through out the month. Set a spending limit, keep on top of it and know how long you've got to go.

Cruise Into Controlling Your Spending

Up can also help you...

Easy saving Easy spending Better with mates Travel easy Upsider perks 
Upgrade Your Banking
Sign Up In Minutes