Up Happy Hour Promotion ('Conditions of Entry')
Each Promotion is conducted on Friday only each week.
Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Each Promotion commences at 5pm and closes at 7pm (based on local time) on a Friday (each a “Happy Hour Period”). The Promotions will commence from 5pm (local time) on 17 November 2023 and will continue on each subsequent Friday, until otherwise specified by the Promoter. All advertising for the Promotions will be removed as soon as the Promotions cease. Exception on time zones applicable: AWST will apply in ACWST areas.

Eligible entrants

Entry is only open to Australian residents who are 16 years and over, have an Up Everyday Debit Card Account and have registered access to the ‘Up’ banking app on their compatible device.

Entrants under the age of 18 must have parent or legal guardian approval to enter.

How to enter

Prizes will be awarded during Happy Hour Periods as they are shown on https://up.com.au/happy-hour. Exact value of prize Credit available to be won in total during each Happy Hour Period will be listed on the aforementioned website.

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete an Eligible Transaction using their Up Everyday Card/Digital Wallet during a Happy Hour Period.

The following conditions must be met in order for a purchase to be a qualifying transaction for this Promotion (“Eligible Transaction”):

The purchase must be made at an identified merchant that has been previously categorised as "Restaurants & Cafes", or “Pubs & Bars” within the larger “Good Life” parent category inside the Up app;
The purchase must be made while a Happy Hour Period is active in the merchants’ timezone (active periods will be updated from time to time and listed at https://up.com.au/happyhour).
The purchase must be made at point of sale using a valid Up Mastercard debit card (physical or digital) — 2Up debit cards are not currently eligible; and
Purchase must be a minimum of $10 in one transaction.

The following are not Eligible Transactions:

Cash out
Any transaction which have been reversed or cancelled
Cash advances
ATM withdrawal
BPay payments
Pay Anyone payments
Any purchase made from a merchant that has not been categorised as a "Restaurants & Cafes", or “Pubs & Bars”; note that purchases from the category “Booze” or “Takeaway” will not be eligible.

Once an Eligible Transaction has been made by the customer they’ll be alerted via a notification in the Up app that they can now ‘play’ the Happy Hour game of chance wheel. This involves tapping through on screen and spinning the digital wheel to potentially win a cash prize ranging between $1-$50.

The specific amount that the customer can potentially win is dependent on the size of their Eligible Transaction. It is calculated as a percentage of this Eligible Transaction (with a possible range overall from 5-50%). Eligible Transactions are grouped in different dollar amount bands and rounded.

To increase the maximum prize potential (i.e. get it closer to 50%) the customer can get other people they’re physically with at the time to use their own devices to scan the Happy Hour ‘boost’ QR code (present on the Up customer’s device, as part of the Happy Hour in-app screen flow). Any mates not on Up get a bonus $10 when they sign up to Up after boosting you (using the campaign invite code shown on screen within their mobile browser).

Note, there is no guarantee of winning a cash prize (regardless of mode played).

The entrant must complete the spin by 7:15pm (local time) on the same day of notification in the Up app. After 7:15pm (local time), this will no longer be possible in-app, and the chance to complete their entry will have expired.

Entries permitted

Limit one (1) entry permitted per week, based on the first Eligible Transaction within the Promotional Period. Maximum of one (1) prize per person each week. Non-winning spins count as an entry.

All valid Happy Hour entries have a chance of winning provided there is still available prize money (this can be viewed during competition hours at https://up.com.au/happyhour). The probability of an entry winning is determined by a number of factors including the time and money remaining for that day as well as the number and recency of any past wins the entrant may have had.

Instant Win Winning Method:

Entrants will be notified immediately upon completing an eligible purchase and playing the Happy Hour game of chance wheel in-app, if they are a winner.

Each winner will see the amount they’ve won appear on the wheel on their app screen once it stops spinning, and will receive an in-app notification that a rounded amount between $1-$50 has been credited to them, and added back to their Up account in the form of ‘cashback’. If they do not win, they will see a “Sorry” message in-app.

The prize is delivered immediately following an Eligible Transaction, notification is provided through the App at the time of prize delivery and will be visible in the customer’s Up app activity feed.

Total Prize Pool:

The total amount of Credit awarded for any individual Promotion (i.e. each Friday) will be determined by the Promoter, but the minimum and maximum amounts per state/territory per Promotion will be as follows:

Victoria: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
New South Wales: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
ACT: $1 AUD to $3000 AUD
Queensland: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
South Australia: $1 AUD to $5000 AUD
Western Australia: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
Tasmania: $1 AUD to $10,000 AUD
Northern Territory: $1 AUD to $5000 AUD

The exact number of prizes awarded will vary based on the value of the winning Eligible Transactions that occur within the Promotional Period.

Further Terms and Conditions:
1. The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
2.Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
3. Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during Happy Hour Periods.
4. Quality control errors will not invalidate an otherwise valid prize claim.
5. Unless otherwise due to fraud or ineligibility under these Terms and Conditions, all prize claims in excess of the advertised prize pool will be honoured.
6. If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize by the time specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
7. Where entry is allowed by purchase or subscription, the cost of the product or service is no greater than the cost would be without the opportunity to participate in the Promotion.
8. No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
9. If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and/or specification, subject to any written directions of a regulatory authority.
10. No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion.
11. If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
12. Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter is bound by the Australian Privacy Principles in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and its privacy policy which is located at https://www.up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter's privacy policy contains information about how the entrant may access, update and seek correction of the personal information the Promoter holds about them and how the entrant may complain about any potential breach by the Promoter of the Australian Privacy Principles or any other Australian privacy laws and how such complaints will be dealt with. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion and to the State and Territory lottery departments as required under the relevant lottery legislation. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion. Personal information collected from entrants will not be disclosed to any entity located outside of Australia.
13. Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
14. If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize, subject to State or Territory regulation.
15. The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
16. The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion, the decision of the Promoter is final and binding on each entrant and no correspondence will be entered into.
17. The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or willful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation), except for any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in which case that liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
18. The entrant will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
19. Unless otherwise specified, a prize is a single event for the winner (and where relevant their guests) and cannot be separated into separate events or components.
20. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
21. Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 11 October 2023