Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Saving Your Home Deposit

Saving for your very first home? Understanding what size deposit you need can be tricky, so we’ve broken it down into a few simple steps.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Let’s be honest, you're about to save a whole lot of money—it's normal to feel a bit intimidated. So let’s start with the basics to help get you on the right track.

How much deposit do I really need?

Your deposit is proof that you can save money and that you're committed to paying a mortgage off. Many lenders will want 10 or 20% of the price of a home. Others will let you take out a home loan with a 5% deposit.

So, if you reckon the sort of place you'll want will require a loan of $550,000, at 5% you'll need to save $550,000 x 5% = $27,500 plus extras like stamp duty. At 20%, that figure becomes $110,000.

A smaller deposit can be a great way to get started but it does come with greater risk. As an example, interest rates can change and impact how much you'll need to repay. Plus, as property prices fluctuate, your loan to value ratio could change too, and you could even end up owing more than your place is worth.

What's 'loan to value ratio’?

This is an expression of how much of the value of your property is yours, and how much you still owe to your lender. It's the loan amount divided by the value of your home.

The higher the ratio (the closer to 1:1), the greater the risk to the lender. To offset this risk, if you start out owing more than 80% you'll almost certainly have to pay for a thing called 'lender's mortgage insurance' (LMI). It's a once-off premium that gets added to your loan at the beginning.

A larger deposit will help you avoid this extra cost. If you can manage to save a 20% deposit (and only borrow 80% of the purchase price), you won't have to take out LMI and you can instead spend that money on the important things.

On the other hand, some people decide that rising costs of buying in their area make LMI likely cheaper than waiting to save. It's important to know the risks either way, and get financial advice if things don't feel crystal clear.

Can I get a First Home Owner grant?

Australia has a national first home owner grant scheme, which was introduced to offset the GST in 2000. Each state and territory has its own rules, so the best place to start is the First Home Owner Grant website, which can direct you. If you're buying for the first time, there's a chance you're eligible for some help.

For example, in Victoria, if you're buying a brand new property worth up to $750,000, you might be eligible for a $10,000 grant. There are also some concessions based on what you're buying, whether you're receiving a pension, and other factors.

In NSW, the First Home Buyers Assistance Scheme can give you partial or full exemption on paying stamp duty. Queensland offers first-time buyers a grant of $15,000 towards brand new homes.

Where do I start?

Creating a Home Saver in-app is a great first step. Set up Payment Splits to direct money to your Home Saver as soon as you get paid to start saving automatically. And to get your savings really humming along, add Boosted Round Ups to your Home Saver and any odd extra cash whenever you can and you’ll be well on the way to nailing down your deposit.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).