Your Own Home? Easy on Up.

Up Home is designed to guide you along your entire journey to home ownership and beyond. From saving, to buying and applying, we’ve reimagined every step to be simple and not drain your brain – something you can do from the comfort of your couch (no economics degree required).

DIY with no downside

Up Home makes buying a home something you can handle yourself. No hard mode, no brochures, no brokers required.

Head to the Home Zone in-app to get an idea of how much you could borrow. Then when you’ve found the place you love, or are ready to refinance, it's easy to apply.

Turbo tools

When you join Up Home, your eligible Savers automatically flip into free 100% Offsets. Add Roundups and Payment Splits to your Savers to pay off your loan faster. Up Home also comes with free redraw should you need it.

To see what our automated savings tools could save you in time and money over the term of your Up Home loan, try our Upgraded Rate Calculator.

Get your Upgraded Rate
The Upside is clear

Applying is simple, straight from the app, so you can get on with booking the movers and picking a colour for that feature wall.

We don't charge most of the fees that bump up those tempting 'advertised rates' when you apply at some other banks.

It's just a straight Up good deal for everyone – even if you're buying with a 10% deposit.

How much does
a home cost?
IndicatorTable

Property Price *

$50,000

Property Price*

$50,000

Repayments / Month*

$240

Min Annual Income*

$6,667

The slider above gives you an idea of what your repayments might cost if you borrowed 80% of the property price at a variable and comparison rate of 6.00% p.a. over 30 years, and the gross income you’ll likely need. To dig through how this is worked out, give this explainer a read.

Is Up Home right for me?

Up Home loans are owner-occupier loans for Upsiders buying in a capital city or major regional centre. You can get one for a home you already own, or a home you’ve fallen in love with.

There's a bit more detail here
If you’re getting ready to buy soon

Enter the Home Zone.

The Home Zone is our superfast conditional pre-approval tool. It uses your Up spending insights to help you understand what you can afford to borrow. Better yet you won’t have to start from scratch during your search for a new home.

If there are a couple of properties you have your eye on, don’t stress, you can still get everything else assessed and confirm the exact property later using your saved application.

If you're ready to buy or refinancing now

We’ll guide you through everything you need to join Up Home.

To get started we'll value your property, check your details, run a credit check and validate your finances. If there’s something the Up robots can't find, our Welcome Home team will be in touch to help you out.

I'm ready to refinance
Great rates from day one

Our variable comparison and annual rates are the same, because we don’t charge most of the fees that can push comparison rates higher. Rates last updated on 17 December, 2024.

Learn more about Up Home Rates and Fees

Variable RateFixed Rate
6.00% p.a.
6
.
0
0
%
PA
%
p.a

Current Annual & Comparison Rate

Tell us you’re dreaming

Not ready yet, but definitely keen to own someday? Why not kick off an Up Home Deposit Saver?

Home Deposit Savers are a special kind of Up Saver that shows you your total savings (including stuff you don’t keep in Up), minus costs like stamp duty. Get a timeline based on your real saving patterns. So you’ll always know where you are, and when you’ll likely be ready to buy.

Plus you’ll learn more about home buying as you save. So when you’re ready? You’ll be really really ready.

Start my Saver
Up Home Learning Centre

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn more about home loans
Ready to apply?

The keys to Up Home are in your app. Scan below for application gratification. If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).