Calculate Your Upgraded Rate.

Use our Upgraded Rate calculator to see how much time and money our automated savings tools and offsets could save you over the term of your home loan.

The Features Powering Your Upgraded Rate

Automatically Save
With Your Pay.

Save On Auto-Pilot
With Payment Splits.

Boost Your Round Ups
To Save As You Spend.

Up To 50 Free
100% Offsets.

$36,231.46 saved in interest

Scroll to see your Upgraded Rate

Scroll to see your Upgraded Rate

Interest saved:

$36,231.46

1. Upgrade Your Home Loan

Your Home Loan Details

Let’s get the lay of the land. Enter the amount remaining on your current home loan and select a repayment term.

Amount

Term

Variable Rate

6.00%

2. Input your Income

Save with your Pay

Getting paid directly into Up means your income will save you money on your home loan. The exact amount you could save will depend on your income level and your spending habits.

Annual income before tax (ex. super)

excluding Super

Add a second person/income

Read More

3. Set up Payment Splits

Save with Pay Splitting

Up lets you automatically save by splitting a percentage of your pay across your Saver Offsets, as soon as you get paid. Saving just 1% of your pay can have a big impact over the life of your loan.

Percentage of pay to split into a Saver

2%

Thats +$72.07 saved into your offset each month

Read More

4. Boost Your Round Ups

Save as you spend

Effortlessly save as you spend with Round Ups. Up can automatically round up your purchases and put the change into an offset Saver. Boost your Round Ups by up to $10 to save even more.

Round Ups on transactions?

OffOn

Boost your Round Ups

$5

$0

$10

Read More

5. Use your 50 Free 100% Offsets

Save with your savings

Up to 50 eligible Savers and Spending accounts automatically flip into free 100% offsets. The more money in your offsets, the less interest you pay on your loan.

Savings

5
.
5
0
%
Your Upgraded Rate

With this setup you could save $36,231.46 in interest – which would mean paying off your loan 1 year and 10 months sooner. To save this much interest without Up’s offsets, you’d need a rate of 5.50%

Interest saved

$36,231.46

Time saved

1 year and 10 months

Your Upgraded rate is meant for illustrative purposes only. It is an approximate rate that would result in the same interest saving that our current variable rate and the features configured above would provide over the term of the loan. It does not factor in interest rate or income changes, and is not our actual rate.

How is this calculated?
It’s simple, really.

Save Money

Our auto-saving features could save you money in interest.

Save Time

Which could mean paying your loan off sooner.

Your Upgraded Rate

It’s a bit like a comparison rate, but one that's designed to illustrate your potential savings in percentage form.

Disclaimers
How is this calculated?

The results from this offset savings calculator gives an indication of the interest and time you could save on your loan by having money in your eligible Up Spending and Savers, and using our automated savings features to save more money in your eligible offset Savers over the loan term, compared to an Up Home loan without any offset balances.

Money in eligible Up Spending and Savers counts as part of your offset balance for interest purposes.

This calculator calculates your offset balance using the current savings balance you have indicated and the anticipated ongoing savings amount based on your Round Up selection and the amount you say you’ll save each month.

The maximum amount you can input as the amount you’ll save each month is 20% of your income.

The estimated savings results are calculated based on the information you’ve inputted, our current variable interest rate and the assumptions below and detailed for each feature. The actual savings you can achieve may be less depending on your spending habits, how you configure relevant Up features, whether the assumptions are correct for you, and changes to interest rates over the term of the loan.

The calculator doesn’t take into account interest you could earn on your savings if they were held in an interest bearing account. The results from the calculator are generic and have been prepared without knowing your full financial circumstances. Before making a decision about a product you should consider whether the product is right for you and seek professional financial advice.

Calculator Assumptions

Indicated savings calculated using the calculator are based on the following assumptions:

No Savers withdrawals

The calculator assumes that money in your offset Savers (including the amounts you say you have or will save and from Round ups) is not spent or withdrawn from your offset Savers.

No interest rate changes

The calculator assumes our current interest rate applies for the full loan term and does not change.

You don’t make additional repayments

The calculator assumes you only make your required repayments and do not make additional repayments.

Save with your pay

Any money you have in an eligible Spending account offsets an Up Home loan, which means getting your pay into Up will reduce the interest on your loan while it is in your Spending account, even if you spend it all by the end of every month.

Calculator information

The calculator assumes that any money from your monthly income that’s not saved will be spent evenly over the month. Therefore your offset balance is calculated with the Spending balance reducing down to $0 by the end of the month.

Our calculations are based on a monthly after tax (net) income amount. Income amounts that are entered as annual before tax (gross) amounts are converted to an approximate a monthly after tax (net) amount, using the tax tables provided by the Australian Tax Office and based on the assumption that one year contains exactly 52 weeks or 26 fortnights.

We assume eligibility for the full tax-free threshold but our calculations do not take into account your individual tax situation, including any HECS/HELP debt, additional income, rental income, dependants, Medicare levy surcharge, or any deductions or tax strategies you may have.

Save with Pay Splitting

The more of your pay that you split into an eligible saver and keep there, the more your savings and offsets will be over time.

Calculator information

The maximum amount you can input as the amount you’ll save each month is 20% of your income.

The calculator assumes that money in your offset Savers (including the amounts you say you have or will save and from Round ups) is not spent or withdrawn from your offset Savers.

The calculator assumes that any money from your monthly income that’s not saved will be spent evenly over the month. Therefore your offset balance is calculated with the Spending balance reducing down to $0 by the end of the month.

Save with Round Ups

With Round Ups on, purchases are rounded up to the nearest dollar and those extra cents are put into the Saver of your choice. Boosting your Round Ups gives you the option to save up to $10 more per transaction on top of that. Round Ups will help you save even more over time, as everything in an eligible offset Saver will reduce the interest paid on your loan.

Calculator information

If you have indicated that you will use the Round Up functionality, the calculator calculates the ongoing savings amount based on an average of 2.19 Round Ups per day with an average amount of 50c per Round Up, with any Round Up boosts added on top of this. This is the median number of transactions and average Round Up amount for Up customers who use Round Ups at the time the calculator was created.

The calculator assumes that money in your offset Savers (including the amounts you say you have or will save and from Round Ups) is not spent or withdrawn from your offset Savers.

Upgrade your Home Loan
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).