Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Get Ready To Rumble: Settlement
Get Ready To Rumble: Settlement

Settlement! It’s the special moment, where the keys become yours. Where you become a homeowner. Or, if you’re refinancing, when your new loan begins. Which is also very exciting if somewhat less dramatic.

Let’s break it down so you know what to expect.

What settlement is

If you’re purchasing, settlement is when money goes from you and us, to the seller. The seller gets all the money, you get all the property (!), and your home loan begins. You won’t have to handle any cash. For safety’s sake, we and the conveyancers move it around securely for you.

If you’re refinancing, settlement is when we pay your old lender out for your original home loan, and your new Up Home loan begins.

When settlement happens

When you’re purchasing, settlement depends on the vendors, conveyancers and you. Generally, you negotiate the date with the seller when you’re making your purchase offer – usually settling at between 30 and 90 days. Our solicitor / conveyancer will try their best to meet that date.

If you’re refinancing, the settlement date depends on when both banks have everything they need to transfer the loan. This is generally worked out between the two lenders and can take up to 4 – 6 weeks from the time you notify your old lender.

Step one: getting ID-verified

We’re about to loan you a lot of money, so before we settle, we need to make sure that you are you.

How exactly this happens will vary depending on where you are in Australia. There'll be more info on ID verification in your loan document pack.

Forms forms forms

There’s a little bit of paperwork yet to come from your conveyancer or solicitor, but their job is to walk you through it. We’re here too, if you need us!

Fair warning: some of it may be on paper. Trust us, we’d love to completely eliminate trees from the home loan process. We’re working on it. But we may still have to get your actual physical signature (“wet signature”) on a few different docs, depending on where you live.

The big moment (and the keys!)

At the time set by all those conveyancers and solicitors and bankers and stuff, you’ll be notified that your settlement is done. It might all be as low-key as an app notification through PEXA, the online platform where most conveyancing transactions and lodgements take place.

But it’s a big deal. Congratulations!

As soon as you’ve been notified that settlement is complete, those keys belong to you. It’s between you and the seller (or their real estate agent) to arrange how to go get them. Maybe pick up a bottle of something nice on the way back.

Making your first repayment

When your loan is all set up, your Up Home account will live in your app and you can set up automatic transfers into this account.

Your first home loan repayment is due exactly one month after your loan settles. So if your loan settles on 1 May, your first repayment is due on 1 June.

Even if you’ve chosen to pay your loan off weekly or fortnightly, you just need to have paid what would’ve been the monthly repayment by the end of the month – we don’t mind how you split it.

We’ll show you the balance of your loan, including any redraw available to you if you choose to pay in extra over time.

(Not sure what that is? Fair. Here’s an explainer).

I need more help

Your own conveyancer or solicitor is the best person to answer your settlement related questions. After all, that’s what you’re paying them for.

Or, you can contact our digital legal partners MSA National:

Email: Daniel.Hwang@msanational.com.au

Phone: +61 2 8719 9723

If you’re still hitting information roadblocks, (though we don't think you will), you’re also welcome to get in touch with us in app.

Some Light Reading

These handy (yet often spectacularly wordy) links have more info and forms you may need as you get closer to the big moment. But if you get lost, chat with us! It’s what we’re here for.

Foreign Tax Form

Foreign Tax Glossary

Key Facts Sheet

Our terms and stuff

Up Home Credit Guide

Authorised People to Witness Execution of Mortgage

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).