Change things Up. Refinance made easy.

Bring your home in-house with Up Home. Let our savings tools work their magic and make paying off your home loan easy.

Let's price it simply.
A great rate with no monthly fees.

We offer a single variable rate, or fixed rates if that's your thing. No tricky pricing, no sneaky fees and no secret handshake required. Rates last updated on 17 December, 2024.

Up Home Variable RateUp Home Fixed Rate
6.00% p.a.
6
.
0
0
%
PA
%
p.a

Current annual & comparison rate

Quick, clear communication and upfront added cost calculation means you’ll always be confident you're getting the best deal.

See Our Rates

Multiple offsets

Don’t cramp your savings style.

Create up to 50 Savers that automatically flip into free offsets — maintain your financial flow and grow with what you know.

Keep your budget working for you, and for the life of your loan with Up Home.

Designed for Up

Connection where it counts.

Up Home is designed to live, work and thrive seamlessly with your current Up setup.

Switching to Up Home means your loan is injected with system-wide integration and powerful tools that boost savings, eliminate money-stress and help you craft your ideal budget.

Low effort application

Lift your game, with just a finger.

Refinancing to Up Home is easy — just phone it in!

Complete our mobile-friendly application process and we'll do the rest. A home loan without the mental gymnastics.

Ready to switch to Up Home?

If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

Upsider experiences.

Don't just take our word for it, hear directly from Upsiders on their experience with Up Home.

Holly + Mitchell

City: Eaton, WA

Age: 25, 28

A seamless experience.

“We refinanced to Up since we were already using them for our everyday banking and the rate was much better than our other bank... I do love having everything in one place and all our savers become offset accounts too.”

George + Vanessa

City: Sydney, NSW

Age: 38

Super easy, really smooth.

“Very straight forward. I’ve refinanced before with multiple banks and process generally take 30-60 days depending on how complex your loan is. With UP I was approved the next day after applying, documents signed and returned a week later by mail...

Read More

Rob

City: Perth, WA

Age: 30

A different experience to every other bank.

“When you consider the "packages" that you have to pay with other banks to get multiple offsets, etc it starts to work out in your favour.”

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).