Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Working out how much you can afford

First home ownership can feel complicated, especially if you have an irregular income or a small deposit. Let’s get an idea of how much you can borrow.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

Whether you're eyeing off an apartment in town or the quiet suburban dream, owning your own place is a huge, exciting commitment. But to avoid heartache while scouring real estate listings, let’s first get a ballpark on what you can afford.

Calculate your current living expenses

When you ask a bank about a home loan, the first thing they’ll do is figure out your 'borrowing power.' This is basically how much you can borrow, plus your deposit, to make your home-owning dreams come true.

They'll look at your whole financial picture—not just your income and savings, but also your expenses. This means everything you regularly spend on: rent, car payments, transport, food, phone bills etc. They’ll also consider any other debts, like car loans or credit card limits.

As an Upsider, you can get a head start by using the Home Zone—our super-fast in-app tool. It uses your Up spending insights to help you understand what you can afford to borrow.

Play around with some calculators

You know your monthly spending better than anyone. This will help determine what you can borrow.

A lender will look at your spending, interest rates, the size of your deposit, whether you're applying alone or with a partner, and more. Income type matters too —casual, irregular income might lead to different borrowing amounts compared to a steady full-time salary. And different banks will come up with different numbers.

Your borrowing power also depends on whether you choose a principal and interest or interest-only loan, and whether you go for a fixed or variable rate. Don’t forget to include additional costs like establishment fees, conveyancers, insurance, and stamp duty.

Essentially, a lender just wants to make sure you can make mortgage repayments now and in the future, especially if interest rates rise or your income fluctuates.

Use the Home Zone in-app to easily calculate how much you can borrow. Just answer a few simple questions about your goals and current financial situation and you’ll know roughly what you can borrow and what to strive for.

Decide how much you’re comfortable repaying

You don't have to borrow to the top of your limits. You should feel comfortable you're not over-committing or changing your wants and needs to suit anyone else's plan.

The general consensus is that a safe estimate for mortgage repayments is about 30% of your income. So, if you're earning $50,000 p.a., you might allocate about $1300 a month to paying off your new place.

But maybe that's not right for you. Maybe you want to keep a bit in the tank, knowing that your income fluctuates or that you might want to travel for 6 months. There’s nothing wrong with deciding you'd be more comfortable with a smaller mortgage repayment.

Playing around with figures can help you strike the balance between your budget and your heart. It's also totally reasonable to give a few lenders a call and talk through numbers without a clear intent to borrow right now. With a clearer picture of your finances, you'll know where to set your 'from' and 'to' price filters to avoid disappointment.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).