Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Let's Buy a Home

You’ve found a home. You’ve got pre-approval. Everything is falling into place ... but what’s the last step?

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

There are two main ways to buy property in Australia: at auction or through a private sale.

Buying through Private Sale

If a place is for sale, you're welcome to make an offer on it as soon as you're ready - you don't have to wait for an auction. This is usually done through the seller's real estate agent, who handles negotiations, terms and so on.

How do you make an offer?

To start making an offer on a place, you decide what you think you can and should pay, and send it in writing to the seller's agent. The agent will share your offer with the vendor.

You can include things like dependencies: 'We'd like to offer $550K for this property in this location, subject to us getting final approval from our lender and the property passing a building inspection.'

Can I change my mind?

You're not tied to anything until both you and the seller have both signed an agreement and you've paid a deposit. An offer is the start of a conversation.

More than likely, the agent will come back with a counter offer, which you can counter in turn if you like. Or, several potential buyers might make offers and you'll need to decide if you want to stay in the fight.

You can even make offers on multiple properties, though offering often when you're not serious can give you a dark rep with agents and maybe even hurt you when you find The One.

How do I know what to offer?

There are rules around giving a fair idea of the expected sale price. They're a bit different in every state and territory, but generally it's against the law for real estate agents to massively underquote. That said, it can be wild out there and the price of a property ultimately comes down to what someone else is willing to pay. We've said it before, but checking the 'sold' section of the apps for properties that are truly like the one you're hoping to buy, and that have sold recently, can help here.

You can use all your existing research, suburb guides and budget and the price range to settle on an offer. There is likely to be a negotiation, especially if they have interest from other buyers, so think about whether you want to go in with your best and final offer right off the bat.

When is it all over?

If everything goes well, and you can agree on a price, the vendor or their agent will arrange for you to get a contract and pay a deposit. Before you hand over $$, you'll want to engage a conveyancer or solicitor. You'll also work with the agent and the seller to set the terms of settlement.

It's up to you to make sure that you get what you need throughout this process (like, if you've said 'subject to building inspection', don't skip it. And ensure you're comfortable with what the inspection means before you pay. A good inspector will walk you through what they found).

Buying at an auction

Buying at auction is as easy as registering your interest and sticking up your hand. In some places, like Victoria, you don't even have to register: just rock up and start bidding.

But doing it well is an art - there are whole Youtube rabbit holes for tips on how to stay calm and look like you're totally in control (even when you're dying inside a bit) so you can dominate the day.

At an auction, potential buyers bid against each other until only one remains. Sellers often opt for an auction (instead of a private sale) when they think their property is likely to attract multiple potential buyers who will bid against one another.

This can also mean many different people have fallen in love with the same place. So it's not a time for mercy. Your nerves will have to be pure steel. You might consider employing an advocate to negotiate and bid for you.

Offers before auction

Usually, a property that's up for auction will have a few open inspections and then the vendor will ultimately wait until auction day to sell. So, if you love it, you just have to hang in there and hope.

However, many sellers will also consider offers before auction. That means you can send your offer to the real estate agent ahead of time, based on what you think it's worth. If it's accepted, the auction will be cancelled.

Do I need to pay on the day?

Yes. Unlike private sales, which give you the chance to set clauses and negotiate, winning at an auction is binding and you will require financial approval.

If you win, you’ll need to pay your deposit on the day, when you sign the contract. Check the requirements in your state or territory.

You'll also need to get every inspection and contract detail you want before the day.

Also - and this is the tricky one - strongly consider setting a limit so you can stick to it. You know how we said to go to some auctions before you're ready to bid? When you do, you'll notice how auctions are designed to toy with your emotions so you pay more. If you reach your ceiling, walk away.

Navigating the home-buying process can be complex, but our Up Home Guides are here to help you understand everything. They can assist you every step of the way, making sure you're informed and feeling confident.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).