Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Getting Ready To Buy

You’ve done your research and feel like it’s time to buy a home. What do you need to sort out before you can shop for real?

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

You’ve now got the essentials: the types of people you might need, a rough budget, how to calculate interest, and a clear deposit goal. So how do you turn this info into action?

Know your priorities

Before you start, write down what's important and rank them. Adapt it as you go. If you inspect an apartment with a north-facing balcony and realise you can't live without one, add it to the list.

Compromise is a big part of house hunting. The chances of finding a place with everything you want, at the price you want to pay, in the right location is gonna be tough. So to make things easier, identify the non-negotiables, and the nice-to-haves.

If you're buying with others, you're probably going to need to compromise even further, which means really honing your top priorities.

Remember, too, that you're likely to stay in this place for a while, so your circumstances might change. In years to come, will your favourite neighbourhood still have everything you need? What if a new love interest wants to move in one day? Living above a bar is fun right now, but will you still love it if you end up on the early shift?

Know your suburbs and median prices

It pays to get to know an area before you decide to move into it.

Suburb guides are one way to get the background info. You can get reports from places like Domain and realestate.com.au. These guides list median prices - that's the property right in the middle of the low-high list of properties (that's different from the average). Median property price can give you an idea of what you could expect to pay, especially if you're also keeping a close eye on what's being bought and sold in your chosen area.

These guides also cover what kinds of households live nearby (couples, families, retirees, dog colonies), local amenities, schools, green space and shops. More comprehensive guides even list things like crime rates, and political leanings.

Home Zone

When you’re ready with a clear vision of what you’re planning to buy and have a fair-sized deposit for that style of place, it might be time to understand how much you can borrow.

With Up, we make this process easy with the Home Zone which gives you an indication of how much you can borrow using your Up spending insights.

Pre-approval

This is where your information is verified (including a check of your credit history). Plus, we cover you for a $400 property valuation, saving you both time and money.

What you'll need to get pre-approval

To determine whether they can give you conditional pre-approval, lenders look at the same kind of information they would if you were really, truly applying for a mortgage, including:

Your income and expenses

How much deposit you've saved, and

The price range of the properties you're into.

They'll also want to know what sort of property you want to buy, and where: some kinds of property will feel safer to them than others. After all, technically they're buying this with you, and in the beginning it's likely that they'll have more $$ invested in it than you will.

Get comfy with some different ways

In Australia, property is usually sold either at auction or via private sale. As the buyer, what you need to do will change according to the sale method.

It's worth not only knowing the major different ways to buy, but actually going along to a few sales you have no intention of buying at. You can build a strategy, see what places really sell for (pro tip: check the 'sold' section of the apps, not just the 'for sale' bit), and get your confidence up. The property market can move quickly, so you want to be as ready as possible to act fast and secure your dream place before someone else does.

We'll talk more later about the ins and outs of how this actually works. For now, make a note of the sale method and practise your subtle auction hand wave.

Some other things to consider

Taking your time, getting pre approval, doing your research and keeping tabs on sale events can mean potentially enduring a long wait, but also potentially put you in a good position as you learn.

It's a good time to get familiar not only with the things we've mentioned above, but also hundreds of weird little things that can happen in the property market.

There's boardroom sales, 'best and final' offers, 'off the plan' buying, and even writing letters to the owners of houses you like. Any of these could be part of your journey and there's so much to explore and learn.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).