Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Get started in-app

The keys to Up Home are in your app. Scan below for application gratification. If you're not an Upsider yet, you'll need to join first. If you're keen for a chat over the phone, you can reach out to our Up Home Guides during business hours (9am-5pm AEST/AEDT) Monday to Friday. Just dial 1300 002 258 and select option 3.

Before you apply, we recommend you check out the Up Home Booklet, our Target Market Determinations, Key Facts Sheet, privacy docs, and credit guide. It’s a bit to read, but this is a big deal.

Up home loans might suit you if:

You want to keep all your money together

You want to keep your Up Savers and tools

You’re buying or refinancing a property you will live in

Your home is in a capital city or major regional centre

You’ll have at least a 10% equity in the property

You want to borrow more than $50,000

You’re currently employed. You can be employed by someone else, or self‑employed

You’re an Australian citizen or permanent resident who lives in Australia, and you can show this with at least one form of government ID, and

You’re applying by yourself or with one other Upsider.

What you’ll need

When we get started on your application, we’ll need to ask a few quick questions about you, your 2Up partner (if you're applying together), and your home. Have some ID handy as well as info about your income and expenses.

What happens next?

After you apply in-app we’ll value your property, check your details, run a credit check and validate your finances. If there’s something the Up robots can’t find, a real human from our team at Up or our partners Tiimely and Bendigo Bank will pop in and help out.

Once you’re approved, your loan docs will be auto-generated and sent to you. Sign and return them. Easy!

(Not totally ready? Open a free Home Saver and we’ll help you build your own path to glory.)

FAQ
What’s your definition of a capital city or major regional centre?

Up home loans are designed for urban centres, rather than rural properties. Kick off an application in-app and we’ll be able to tell you in a few minutes if the postcode you’re looking at is suited to Up Home. If you’re outside our zones, Bendigo Bank has a range of lending options available that might suit you better.

10% seems kinda low, aren’t you supposed to have 20%?

20% is the traditional standard. For most Up Home purchases you’ll need to take out Lender’s Mortgage Insurance if you have less than 20% saved.

Some people prefer to save till they’re past the LMI requirement; others feel that the cost of LMI is worth it to buy now. We can’t tell you what the right option is for you: neither can the nice lady with the tarot cards or your Uncle Steve Who Knows About House Prices Cause He Bought Three Houses Cheap in 1986. This one is your call.

Do you really really mean self employment is OK?

Yes, we do. You’ll need to be able to demonstrate that your income is high enough over at least a year to meet the demands of regular, ongoing loan payments. We’ll chat further with you when you kick off an application.

Do I need to apply with someone else?

Nope. It’s a common myth that you must be coupled up to get a home loan. All you need to do is show us you can cover the repayments. Go you little red fire engine.

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).