Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Time to Move

What to expect when you’re finally ready to move into your new home.

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

In our last post, we covered some of those "final checks" items, like signing your loan documents and how the money gets transferred to the seller. Now, let's have a practical chat about what you need to do to make shifting your stuff as painless as possible.

Make final inspections

Your contract almost certainly entitles you to a last check of the property in the week leading up to settlement. That gives you a chance to make sure it's still in the same condition it was when you bought it. If it's not, this is when you can ask the vendor to fix it. It can also be a great opportunity to measure up and figure out where furniture might go.

Connect utilities

Arriving at your new home in complete darkness is pretty miserable, so you'll want to make sure you have the essentials ready from the get go.

Depending on what's available at your property, you'll have a few different services to get connected. Start doing this way ahead of time. Get in touch with your suppliers for electricity, gas and internet companies to book a date for everything to be active.

Don't forget—when you pay your bills with Up, late fees become a thing of the past. Up learns your regular charges, predicts when they'll hit, and helps you see how much you really have to spend in the weeks ahead. Set up your Regulars in-app once you've received your first bills.

Let everyone know where you've gone

People need to know where you live now. It's important to change your address details with the electoral commissions, government departments like Medicare and Centrelink, your bank and the road authority. Most of these can be done easily online. Do it close to moving day, so you don't miss anything important.

Speaking of which, you can also pay to have your mail redirected for a period of time after you move. To do that, head on over to the Australia Post website.

Book your removalist

There can be a tricky balance here - sometimes settlement day is delayed, and then you've got a truck going nowhere - but you don't want to leave it too long and miss out. Some people suggest booking the van for a few days after settlement, just in case.

Also, not all removalists are equal, so ask friends and family for recommendations to reduce the risk of stuff getting broken.

Check your pets

If you're moving to a new council area, check the requirements for registering your pets, so they're all set on moving day.

Take possession

This is when you legally become the owner of your property. Congratulations. You made it.

You've already signed most of the documents, but on settlement day there are final signatures and checks to make sure everything has been executed properly. Your conveyancer will make the exchange with your lender and the seller's squad. Now it's yours. You can go get the keys.

Pick up your keys

Once you have your keys, it's a good idea to get the locks changed. Sounds a bit counter-intuitive, but you simply don't know who has a copy. Locksmiths usually cost a couple of hundred bucks but it's nice peace of mind.

That’s that.

If you haven’t already, have a play with our Upgraded Rate calculator. It helps you to see how much time and money you could save over the term of your home loan if you put our automated savings tools to work. There are many different ways Up can help you pay off your loan sooner if you so choose.

Home loans aren’t as scary as they may seem, but there’s no doubt there’s a lot to unpack. The good news—our Up Home Guides are the help we always knew we needed. We’ll be with you throughout your journey whenever you need us.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).