Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Finalising Your Loan

What needs to happen to make your new home really, truly yours?

Remember, any advice provided on this website is of a general nature only and does not take into account your personal needs, objectives and financial circumstances. You should consider whether it is appropriate for your situation.

You're nearly there. The finish line (your new home) is in sight.

After all the hard work is done... how do you pay for it?

Get your pride and joy insured

You need insurance. It's going to be a condition of your loan - your lender won't hand over squat until you have it and may require they’re listed on your policy.

This feels obvious, but buying a new home is exciting and things can get missed. Before you set foot through the front door, it must be insured. Once that property is yours, everything that happens to it is your responsibility. Burns down? Floods? No one is paying for that except you.

Home insurance isn't the same as contents insurance. Generally, it covers the actual building, and not what's inside it. If a tree falls on your roof, your insurer will likely pay to fix the tiles (depending on the cover you have). So while you only have to get the one, you might want to think about both.

Read the policy carefully so you know what's actually covered. Don't assume everything is covered.

Final loan sign-off

You've already got pre-approval, but that's not the same as having a loan. Now your lender will confirm your identity, make sure you can make payments, and check your credit history. These details might have changed since you got pre-approval, especially if you bought something really different from what they expected (maybe check with them before you do that), or if something in your life has changed.

You might also decide you want to have a different lender than the one you did pre-approval with, and this is a time when you can change your mind.

Once that's done, you're ready to sign! With some lenders, you'll need to go into a branch to set up your mortgage account, but it's getting a lot more common to do it online.

Getting ready for settlement

First, you'll sign all the big documents online (you absolutely must read them even though they're just impressively, phenomenally boring). Second, your lender will make you a new account, and attach an offset account if you're getting one. Third, you'll put all the money you're personally contributing (your "contribution") into your new mortgage account.

Then, it's over to your squad. Your conveyancer, your lender and a joint called PEXA will join forces to make sure your money can be securely transferred for settlement. They'll set a day and a time for it all to go down but usually, you won't touch the money at all. You'll just get a text: it's done! That makes it heaps quicker and more secure.

If it can't be done in PEXA, your conveyancer can walk you through alternative options.

Sometimes settlements can be delayed. This is frustrating but only rarely means things will actually fall through. However, it's a good idea not to schedule the moving truck for the exact time settlement is meant to happen.

Making your first mortgage payment

Typically, you won't need to start making payments until after you've moved in. Your lender will set the date for the first payment, which is usually a fortnight, a week or a month after the settlement date (depending on what you choose). You can move in right after you settle, so you get a little breathing room.

Up Home learning centre.

Buying a home is one of the biggest learning curves life can throw at you. Let's get you sorted out with how to prep your finances, get some sweet subsidies, and master home buying buzzwords.

Learn More About Home Loans
The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).