Welcome to Up Home Loans
Up Home
Fair Rates. Low Fees
Saver Offsets & Free Redraw
Apply for Up Home
Saver Offsets and Free Redraw

Offset accounts: they’re your secret weapon for owning your own home faster. And with Up Home you don’t even have to think about them to get all the good stuff.

If you get a 2Up loan, all your 2Up accounts (both Spending and Savers), as well as your personal Up Spending account, become free offsets: you won’t have to change a thing. If you take out a loan on your own, your individual accounts are all free offsets. Easy.

But what is an offset?

In your everyday life, offsets work just like a regular spending account or Saver. The money in them is yours to use. But before we calculate how much interest you owe on your home loan every month, we subtract the total amount you're keeping in them from your current loan balance.

Say you're paying down a loan of $400k, and you also have a holiday Saver that's grown to $5k, and about $1k that you keep around for groceries and stuff. When your interest is calculated, you'll pay interest on only $394k. It's all calculated daily so it's not exactly that simple — but we reckon you get the idea.

You’ll probably make the same repayment you always did, but a bit more $$ goes towards owning your home, and a bit less to us. Which we are all about, cause the goal here is to get you from Up Home, to your home.

Old school loans usually come with one or two offset accounts, or a redraw facility. You’ll probably pay a monthly fee for the privilege, and they’ll be separate from your regular banking. We feel like just taking the Savers you’ve already set up the way you like them, and making them do a bit more work, makes a bunch more sense for you.

But wait, what’s a redraw facility?

Redraw is another way you can save on interest. You can make extra payments on your loan if you want, pay less interest as a result, and later change your mind and have some of the extra money back.

Redraw is free with Up Home too.

So if paying more on your loan would feel good to you you can put it directly into your loan account. Or if you prefer to keep your money organised with Savers, Saver offsets might be more your style. Or mix them up! It’s up to you, cause every day your money is in one of these accounts reduces the interest you pay on your loan.

Go thrive.

(P.S. though — you won’t also earn bonus interest on Savers like you did when they were regular savings accounts. We’re magic but not that magic).

The Finer Details

Home loan words can be… a lot. Check out our plain English guide if anything on this page could use a little explanation.

About our rates

Our home loan rates are current as of today, available to all home loans approved on or after this date, and they can change. Our comparison rates are calculated for a $150,000 loan over 25 years. They factor in our fees associated with applying for the loan and our ongoing fees. Our fixed loans roll to a variable principal and interest rate (currently 6.00% p.a.) at the end of the fixed term.

Terms, conditions, fees, charges and lending criteria apply to all Up Home loans. You can generate a key facts sheet for Up home loans.

Credit provided by Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL / Australian Credit Licence 237879.

WARNING: The comparison rates are true only for the examples given and may not include all fees and charges. Different terms, fees or other loan amounts might result in a different comparison rate.

About our No Need to Haggle statement

Up home loans are simple, transparent and negotiation-free. There’s no secret offer you could be on if only you were mates with the right person or knew the magic handshake. And if the rate you’re on doesn’t feel right? Leave our variable loans any time, no hard feelings, no discharge fee.

About Annual and Comparison Rates

Up Home has one simple number for both comparison and annual rates. But what does that mean?

Every lender’s combination of fees and interest rates is different. A really low rate with high fees might end up costing you more! The comparison rate is a way of combining fees and interest into one number you can, you guessed it, compare.

The formula for calculating a comparison rate is regulated by the Consumer Credit Code, and anyone who sells home loans has to use the same formula. That way you can compare one comparison rate against another, and not get ripped off.

Since we don’t charge most of the fees that can raise the comparison rate over the annual rate, we display one number for both rates. With Up Home they are the same.

It's important to be aware though that some government fees and other costs can still apply to your home loan.

How our home repayments indicator works

Our indicator is just a simple guide. A fun guide. Definitely nothing serious like a quote, credit approval, or offer of credit. It's absolutely not advice on how much you can or should borrow, which product you should choose, the product features or options, what sounds good for dinner or what to name your new pet budgie.

It's designed to give you an estimate of how much it'd cost to make regular repayments on a loan based on the property value you entered, our current variable home loan interest rates (6.00% per annum, which for the purposes of working this stuff out, we assume will stay the same for the whole life of the loan, but it most likely won't because interest rates change regularly at every bank). Variable interest rates are by their nature subject to change — it's right there in the name. We also offer fixed rates. Check ’em out.

We also use HEM (Household Expenditure Measure), and assume that you'd pay off your loan over 30 years. You could go faster if you wanted to. And we assume you'll need to borrow 80% of value of the property (as a loan to value ratio, or LVR in bank speak).

That's a lot of assumptions — this is just a helpy thing you can use to ballpark out costs. We'll work with you on a real assessment when you begin an application, taking into account specifics of the property and loan type you want, your personal details, applicable fees and your finances.

We're responsible lenders, so when we get to that point we'll likely calculate your borrowing power using the higher of your estimated expenses or your HEM (Household Expenditure Measure — an Australian average expenditure benchmark). Your real circumstances may be different, and then your borrowing power would likely be different too. For deposits below 20% you'll also need Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI).