Up: Most Trusted

May 31, 2021

The team at Mozo have wrapped up vote counting in the 2021 Mozo People’s Choice Awards for Banking - and the top consumer choice is Up. We’re stoked to announce that voters placed Up at the very top of consumer rankings for all of the following categories (our biggest ever haul):

Trust
Recommended
Service
App
Every day satisfaction
Satisfaction*

We’re thrilled to announce that Up has taken out awards for Outstanding Customer Satisfaction, Excellent Customer Service, Highly Trusted, Mobile Banking Experience, Customer Satisfaction, and Most Recommended.

The team at Mozo had this to say:

‘Up has dressed to impress this year, taking home a whopping six 2021 Mozo People's Choice Awards. The neobank not only won Australia's votes for trust and customer service, but it was also recognised for providing a top-notch bank account and mobile banking experience. It’s little wonder why Up was one of only a few providers to receive a Most Recommended trophy from its customers this year.

This isn’t Up’s first Mozo award either, with the neobank also catching the attention of our experts. The Up Everyday Account won a 2021 Mozo Experts Choice Award for Exceptional Everyday Account while its app has also received back-to-back awards for Excellent Banking App.’

More than half of new Upsiders join us on the recommendation of a friend, and we don’t hold that trust lightly. We’re proud to have earned it and will continue to work for it every day. Not least in our customer service team, who are thrilled to be recognised for their work chatting with customers 7 days a week through our app. ‘Excellent Customer Service’ is one of the things we’re proudest of here at Up, and we’re grateful to every Upsider who voted.

Some words of appreciation to you, our customers, from the Up Support team:

“Thanks so much to the Upsiders that shared the love for Up Support! It’s a real pleasure to talk with you everyday and we hope to continue to provide you with awesome service whenever you need us! UP YEAH!”

“Winning awards is special but also seemingly effortless when you have some of the best customers in the world.”

“Thank you for everything you've given us. It has been an absolute pleasure to interact with each and everyone of you over the last 2+ years, you're by the far the best customers in the land. We are well aware that we wouldn't be where we are today if it wasn't for our Upsiders. Thank you!”

“Thank you for all the love and support Upsiders! From the birthdays we share to the swapping of pet pictures, y’all are like our extended family. You really make each release more special then the next and are continuously putting a smile on our faces. We share this moment with you! If you ever want to have a chat, you know where to find us. Up Yeah!”

*Questions were posed to respondents as follows:

Recommend: Based on your experience with [brand] how likely would you be to recommend them to a friend or colleague?
Satisfaction: Overall Satisfaction with your experience with this provider
Service: Customer Service via phone, by email, online or face to face
Trust: Trustworthiness of the provider to treat you fairly and follow through on promises
App: Mobile Banking App satisfaction
Satisfaction everyday: Overall Satisfaction with your Everyday account