The best way to spend and save.

Easy to try, no monthly fees, and features that help you save effortlessly and spend wisely.

No overseas
purchase fees

No overseas fees online or in-store.

No monthly fees

Practically no fees at all, actually. Free for most standard use. Details below.

Multiple Savers

Instantly create multiple Savers within the Up app. It’s easy.

Backed & guaranteed

Backed by the best, starting with: Bendigo and Adelaide Bank for banking, Mastercard® for payments, and Google Cloud Platform for hosting.

Deposits provided through the Up apps are protected by the Financial Claims Scheme, up to $250,000 per person (in aggregate across all deposit products held with Bendigo and Adelaide Bank).

Up Fees, Rates & Charges

Section M of the Personal Accounts Terms & Conditions (we recommend you read these) contains a complete listing of our fees and charges. Below is the information relevant to most people, most of the time.

Up Everyday & 2Up Accounts

Your Up & 2Up accounts are free for most standard uses. Interest is charged in the event your Up or 2Up account becomes overdrawn.

Monthly service fee	Free
Direct debits	Free & unlimited
Online payments	Free & unlimited
Deposits to Savers	Free & unlimited
Domestic ATM withdrawals	Free at most major Bank ATMs
Domestic ATM enquiry	Free at most major Bank ATMs
International transaction fees	0%
International ATM withdrawal	Free at most major Bank ATMs
International ATM enquiry	Free at most major Bank ATMs
Overdrawn interest rate	11.23% p.a.
Up Debit Card	Free
2Up Digital Debit Card	Free
2Up Plastic Debit Card	$10.00
Up Savers & 2Up Savers

Up Savers and 2Up Savers are free to use, and they pay 4.35% p.a. interest once qualified. You can transfer money to and from your Up Savers and your Everyday Account as much as you like. Rates effective from 1 July, 2023, and are subject to change.

Monthly service fee	Free
Base interest rate	0.00% p.a.
Bonus interest rate	

4.35% p.a. calculated daily, paid monthly once qualified and applied from the start of the qualifying calendar month. Base interest rate is paid when unqualified.


Qualification criteria	

To qualify for the bonus interest rate in a calendar month, make 5 successful purchases using your Up or 2Up debit card, Apple Pay™, Google Pay™ or other digital wallets in the same month. ATM transactions or transfers are not included.


Bonus interest rate cap	Once qualified, the bonus interest rate is paid on the combined balance of Savers up to $1M in your Up Savers as well as $1M in your 2Up Savers.
Withdrawals from Savers	Free & unlimited
Up Home

Please visit the Up Home rates and fees page for more info about our home loans.