Credit Privacy Disclosure Statement
1. Collection of your personal information and credit-related personal information

Up is a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited, ABN 11 068 049 178, AFSL and Australian Credit Licence 237879 (“we”, “us”, and “our”).

Tiimely Pty Ltd ABN 41 605 696 544 is our service provider and assists us in relation to the loan application, assessment and settlement processes, and collects, uses and discloses your personal information on our behalf.

We collect your personal information and credit-related personal information to assess your application, to provide you with the product or service that you have requested and to assess any future applications for products or services you may make to us or our related entities. We may also use the information you provide to better tailor our products and services to you. If you are a guarantor we collect your personal information and credit-related personal information to assess whether to accept you as a guarantor for credit applied for, or provided to, the borrower.

Collection of some of this information is required by the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006.

We use an automated digital identity verification process provided by GBG which involves the collection and use of biometric information in the form of a selfie, which is only used for the purpose of verifying your identity against your identity documents. You need to provide a separate consent to your identity being verified in this way (which is the first step of the process when we refer you to GBG). You can request an alternative method for verifying your identity by contacting us on 1300 992 700.

If you provide incomplete or incorrect information we may be unable to provide you with the product or service you are applying for.

As part of the application process, we will need to verify your identity. If you choose to use our automated digital identity verification process which involves you taking a photograph of your face (a “selfie”), you consent to us collecting and using your related biometric information for the purpose of verifying your identity. If you don’t, you will need to verify your identity using an alternative method. You can request an alternate method for verifying your identity by contacting us on 1300 992 700.

2. Collection of personal information and credit-related personal information about third parties

We may need to collect personal information and credit-related personal information about a third party from you as part of this application. If we do this, you agree you will advise that person that we have collected their information, and that in most cases they can access and seek correction of the information we hold about them.

3. Use and disclosure of your personal information and credit-related personal information

We may use your personal information and credit-related personal information to perform our business functions (for example internal audit, operational risk, product development and planning). We may also use your personal information to confirm your details (for example contacting your employer to confirm your employment and income details).

We treat your personal information and credit-related personal information as confidential and only disclose it to others where necessary. For example, we usually disclose your information to organisations to whom we outsource functions such as mailing and printing houses, IT providers, our agents and specialist advisers such as accountants and solicitors. Other disclosures usually include joint account holders, account operators and account applicants, Credit Reporting Bodies (as defined below), insurers, intermediaries, valuers, debt collection agencies and government authorities. Your information may also be disclosed to our related entities, our joint venture partners and Community Bank® companies where its confidentiality is maintained at all times.

4. Disclosure of personal information and credit-related personal information to overseas organisations

Some of the organisations we disclose your personal information and credit-related personal information to may be located overseas. Where an organisation is located overseas we will either take reasonable steps to ensure that it complies with Australian privacy laws or we will seek your consent to the disclosure.

5. Access to and correction of your personal information and credit-related personal information

In most cases you can gain access to and seek correction of your personal information and credit-related personal information. Should you wish to do so, or if you have any queries about your information, please contact us on 1300 941 461.

6. Collection, use and disclosure of your credit-related personal information
Equifax (previously Veda Advantage)

PO Box 964
North Sydney
NSW 2059
Public Enquiries: 1300 762 207
Website: www.mycreditfile.com.au

Illion (previously Dun & Bradstreet)

PO Box 7405
St Kilda Melbourne Vic 3004
Public Enquiries: 1300 734 806
Website: www.checkyourcredit.com.au

Experian

PO Box 1969
North Sydney
NSW 2060
Public enquiries: 1300 783 684
Website: www.experian.com.au

By completing a credit product application you agree that we can do all of the following:

a. Commercial credit-related personal information

Seek and use commercial credit-related personal information to assess an application for consumer credit or commercial credit.

b. Consumer credit-related personal information

Seek and use consumer credit-related personal information to assess an application for consumer credit or commercial credit.

c. Collection of overdue payments

Seek and use a credit report provided by a credit reporting body to collect overdue payments.

d. Exchange of information between credit providers

Seek from and use or give to another credit provider (including a credit provider who has lent money on the same security) any information or opinion about credit worthiness, credit standing, credit history or credit capacity.

e. Exchange of information with intermediaries

Seek from and use any consumer or commercial credit-related information from or disclose that information to, any introducer, financial adviser, accountant, mortgage manager, lawyer, or other intermediary (including any intermediary mentioned on the front page of this application form) acting in connection with any credit applied for or provided.

f. Provide credit information to credit reporting bodies

In this privacy disclosure statement, the "Credit Reporting Body" means each of the following organisations (whether acting individually or together):

Give to a Credit Reporting Body credit information. Credit information is defined in the Privacy Act and includes, to the extent applicable:

identification information;
consumer credit liability information;
a statement that an information request has been made in relation to you by us, or a mortgage insurer or trade insurer;
the type of consumer credit or commercial credit, and the amount of credit, sought in an application: that has been made by you to us; and
in connection with which we have made an information request in relation to you;
default information;
repayment history information;
financial hardship information;
new arrangement information;
court proceedings information;
personal insolvency information;
publicly available information:
that relates to your activities in Australia or the external Territories and your credit worthiness; and
that is not court proceedings information about you or information about you that is entered or recorded on the National Personal Insolvency Index;
our opinion that you have committed, in circumstances specified by us, a serious credit infringement in relation to consumer credit provided by us to you.
The Credit Reporting Body may include the information given by us in reports provided to other credit providers to assist them to assess your credit worthiness.

The Credit Reporting Body has a policy for managing your credit information that you may access by contacting them. In some cases a Credit Reporting Body may use your information for pre-screening your eligibility to receive direct marketing from us or other credit providers. If you do not want a Credit Reporting Body to do this contact the Credit Reporting Body. Where you believe on reasonable grounds that you have been or are likely to be a victim of fraud you may request a Credit Reporting Body not to use or disclose your information.

g. Provide information for securitisation

Disclose any report or information to another person in connection with funding by means of an arrangement involving securitisation.

h. Provide information to guarantors

Disclose any information to any person who proposes to guarantee or has guaranteed repayment of any credit provided.

i. Provide information to a mortgage insurer

Disclose your personal and credit-related personal information to a mortgage insurer when we apply to or otherwise deal with the mortgage insurer in relation to Lenders Mortgage Insurance for credit we provide to you.

The Mortgage Insurer we deal with is Helia Group Limited ABN 72 154 890 730, trading as Helia.

Helia has a Privacy Policy and Credit Reporting Policy which details how they manage any personal and credit-related personal information that we share with them. You can review the policy at https://helia.com.au/privacy-policy.

7. Privacy Policy and Credit Reporting Policy

You should also read our Privacy Policy and our Credit Reporting Policy which can be obtained at:

Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited
80 Grenfell Street
Adelaide SA 5000
1300 652 220
bendigobank.com.au/public/privacy-policy

Tiimely Pty Ltd also has a Privacy Policy which can be obtained at:

Tiimely Pty Ltd
Level 7, 121 King William Street
Adelaide SA 5000
1300 992 700
tiimelyhome.com.au/legal-bits/privacy-policy

Each Privacy Policy contains information about:

how you can access and seek correction of your personal information;
how you can complain about a breach of the privacy laws and how a complaint will be dealt with;
if personal information will be disclosed to overseas entities and, where practicable, which countries those recipients are located in.

Our Credit Reporting Policy contains information about:

how you can access and seek correction of your credit eligibility information;
how you can seek correction of your credit information;
how you can complain about a breach of the credit reporting laws by us and how we will deal with a complaint;
if we disclose your credit information or credit eligibility information to overseas entities, and where practicable, which countries those recipients are located in.
Electronic Communication Consent and Authority

You consent to us communicating with you electronically. This consent and authority will apply to all communications permitted to take place electronically by law including, but not limited to, statements, notices and any disclosure documents that we are required to give you in relation to any facilities or products you hold with us. We rely on this consent to communicate to you by e-mail to the address you have notified to us; making a notice available for you to access on our website; and/or any other method of electronic communication. You should note that paper documents may no longer be given and that electronic communications must be regularly checked. Notwithstanding this consent, we may still decide to send you paper documents in certain circumstances including where electronic delivery is unavailable or we reasonably believe your email address is not receiving the emails we send. You may withdraw this consent at any time and change to receiving paper statements, notices and documents to your nominated mail address, by notifying us by phone or in writing.

Date of Publication – 13 June 2023