Notifiable Matters Statement

As part of assessing applications for credit and the management of credit facilities we provide, we disclose some of the personal information we collect about you, and your credit facilities, to credit reporting bodies. This statement provides the name and contact details of the credit reporting bodies to whom we may disclose your personal information as well as information about certain rights you have.

If you fail to meet your payment obligations in relation to consumer credit, we may be entitled to disclose this to the credit reporting bodies we deal with.

You may request access to the credit eligibility information we hold about you, seek that your credit information or credit eligibility information be corrected, or make a complaint to us about a breach of credit reporting laws by us.

Disclosure to overseas recipients

In some cases we may need to share some of your information with organisations outside Australia. For example, when we use service providers located overseas to perform a function on our behalf.

We may share your information with overseas organisations that are located in the following countries:

Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Fiji
France
Germany
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Israel
Nauru
The Netherlands
New Zealand
Philippines
Singapore
Spain
UK
US

When we share your information with organisations overseas we ensure appropriate data handling and security measures are in place.

Our Credit Reporting Policy

This statement should be read together with our Credit Reporting Policy which is available here or by calling us.

It contains information about:

how you can access and seek correction of your credit eligibility information;
how you can seek correction of your credit information; and
how you can complain about a breach of the credit reporting laws by us and how we will deal with a complaint.
Credit reporting bodies we deal with

The credit reporting bodies we may disclose your personal information to, and their contact details, are:

Equifax
PO Box 964
North Sydney NSW 2059
Public enquiries: 13 83 32
Website: www.mycreditfile.com.au

Illion
PO Box 7405
St Kilda Road
Melbourne VIC 3004
Public enquiries: 13 23 33
Website: www.checkyourcredit.com.au

Experian
PO Box 1969
North Sydney NSW 2060
Public enquiries: 1300 783 684
Website: www.experian.com.au

The credit reporting bodies may include the information we disclose to them in reports they provide to credit providers to assist them to assess your credit worthiness.

You can obtain a copy of each credit reporting body’s Credit Reporting Policy from its website.

You can also request that credit reporting bodies:

not use your credit reporting information for the purposes of pre-screening of direct marketing by a credit provider; and
if you believe on reasonable grounds that you have been or are likely to be a victim of fraud, not use or disclose your credit reporting information.

Last updated 1 March 2022