Rising 2023 Cash Back and Social Terms and Conditions ('Conditions of Entry')
Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Start date: 07/06/23 at 07:00 pm AEST
End date: 18/06/23 at 07:00 pm AEST

Eligible entrants

Entry and claims are only open to Australian residents who are 18 years and over and existing Up account holders.

How to enter
How to Enter for chance to win tickets:

To enter the Promotion for the chance to win the tickets prize, the entrant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

attend the RISING Night Trade event at 200 Flinders Street, Melbourne VIC 3000 between 07/06/23 until 18/06/23 ('RISING Night Event’);
take a photo or video about their time at the RISING Night Event (‘Photo/Video’); and
upload the Photo/Video to their Instagram or TikTok account and tag @up_banking (via Instagram) or @upbanking (via TikTok).

Entrants must ensure their Instagram account privacy setting is set to public (i.e. not 'private') to be eligible for this Promotion.

How to Claim Cash Back Offer:

To be eligible to claim the cash back offer, the claimant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

attend the RISING Night Event; and
spend at least $4 or more at the Up bar at the RISING Night Event using their Up bank card or digital wallet for payment. 2Up Cards and digital wallets are not eligible.

The first 4,000 valid cash back claims received will each receive a $5 cashback, paid by direct deposit to the claimant’s Up bank account. The cashback will be awarded as an Up Credit. The cashback will be provided to the Up bank account used for the qualifying purchase.

Entries and claims permitted

Only one (1) eligible entry/claim to the cashback offer per person will be accepted. Entries and claims must be completed in accordance with the entry and claim instructions above. Multiple entries can be made for the Chance to Win tickets, however only one win is permitted.

Total prize pool

Social Chance to Win competition: AUD $3,000
Cashback: AUD $20,000

Prize Description

Prize: The Chance to Win prize is 2 x adult tickets to the winner's choice choice of activity from the following 2 options: (1) Ice Skating at the Rising Festival at Birrarung Mar OR (2) Euphoria at Melbourne Town Hall.

Tickets redeemable for one (1) day of the winner’s choice between 07/06/23 until 18/06/23, subject to booking availability. Winners will need to use a Rising booking system to secure tickets.

Number of prizes

50

Value (per prize)

AUD$60.00

Winning Method

Judging

Prize conditions
If the winner is unwilling or unable to attend at the designated time for the event associated with the prize, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
The Ice Skating or Euphoria ticket prizes are subject to the event venue and ticket terms and conditions, including any applicable age restrictions. The Promoter and event organisers hereby expressly reserve the right to eject any winner and/or his/her companion for any inappropriate behaviour, including but not limited to intoxication, whilst participating in any element of the prize.
All costs associated with travel to and from Euphoria at Melbourne Town Hall or Ice Skating at Birrarung Mar, will be the responsibility of the winner and their guest for the prize.
Winning notification

The prize winners will be notified via their Instagram or TikTok account (depending on their method of entry).

Successful recipients of the cash back offer will be notified via an Up in-app notification.

Unclaimed Prizes

In the event of an unclaimed prize, the Promoter may at its discretion assign the prize to the entry judged the next best entry, conduct a further judging to award the prize, or withdraw the prize unawarded. The Promoter is under no obligation to award any unclaimed prize.

The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise. All references to entrant/entry/entries/prize in the following terms equally apply to claimant/claim/claims/cash back offer.
The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
Employees (and their immediate family members) of agencies/companies directly associated with the conduct of this Promotion, the Promoter, businesses involved in determination of winner/s for the Promotion, businesses involved in the management of the Promotion, any organisation benefiting from the Promotion, the Promoter’s distributors, suppliers, subsidiary companies/businesses and associated companies and agencies are not eligible to win the tickets prize (but they may enter the Promotion and also claim the cash back offer). "Immediate family member" means any of the following: spouse, ex-spouse, de-facto spouse, child or step-child (whether natural or by adoption), parent, step-parent, grandparent, step-grandparent, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister or 1st cousin.
Judging:
The Prize winners will be determined by representatives of the Promoter. Each entry will be judged on the basis of the individual creative merit of the Photo or Video provided on entry.
The best 50 valid entries, as determined by the judges, will each win the prize specified in the Schedule above.
The judges may select additional reserve entries which they determine to be the next best, and record them in order, in case of an invalid entry or ineligible entrant.
The winners will be determined by skill. Chance plays no part in determining the winners. The judges' decision is final and binding and no correspondence will be entered into.
All reasonable attempts will be made to contact each winner.
If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize by the time specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable at the designated time for the Event, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
Where entry is allowed by purchase or subscription, the cost of the product or service is no greater than the cost would be without the opportunity to participate in the Promotion.
The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and specification.
No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion.
Each prize will be awarded to the person named in the entry and any entry that is made on behalf of an entrant or by a third party will be invalid. If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter is bound by the Australian Privacy Principles in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and its privacy policy which is located at https://up.com.au/privacy/. The Promoter's privacy policy contains information about how the entrant may access, update and seek correction of the personal information the Promoter holds about them and how the entrant may complain about any potential breach by the Promoter of the Australian Privacy Principles or any other Australian privacy laws and how such complaints will be dealt with. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion. Personal information collected from entrants will not be disclosed to any entity located outside of Australia.
For the purposes of public statements and advertisements, the Promoter may only publish the winner's surname, initial and State/Territory or postcode of residence.
The Promoter reserves the right to refuse to allow a winner to take part in any or all aspects of a prize, if the Promoter determines in their absolute discretion, that a winner is not in the physical or mental condition necessary to be able to safely participate in or accept the prize. It is a condition of accepting the prize that a winner may be required to sign a legal release as determined by the Promoter in its absolute discretion, prior to receiving a prize.
If a prize is provided to the Promoter by a third party, the prize is subject to the terms and conditions of the third party prize supplier and the provision of the prize is the sole responsibility of the third party and not the Promoter. The terms and conditions which apply to the prize at the time it is issued to the winner will prevail over these Conditions of Entry, to the extent of any inconsistency. The Promoter accepts no responsibility or liability for any delay or failure by the third party to deliver the prize, any delay or failure relating to the prize itself or failure by the third party to meet any of its obligations in these Conditions of Entry or otherwise.
Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize.
The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
All material submitted on entry (e.g. photo(s), image(s), drawing(s), comment(s), sound/video recording(s) and answer(s) to a promotional question) must NOT: (a) be in breach of any laws, regulations and rights, e.g. any laws regarding intellectual property (copyright, trademarks, etc), defamation and privacy; (b) be defamatory, obscene, derogatory, pornographic, sexually inappropriate, contain nudity, aggressive, violent, abusive, harassing, threatening, objectionable or discriminate/vilify any section of the community with respect to race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, origin, sexual preference, mental illness, disability or gender or unsuitable for publication; or (c) contain viruses. Entrants warrant that they own or have the right to license the copyright in any entry submitted by them into this Promotion, for the purposes of this Promotion, that no rights have been granted to any third party in respect of any such entry which would prevent the entry being used as contemplated by this Promotion, and that the use by the Promoter of any such entry will not breach any laws or infringe the rights of any person (including without limitation with respect to privacy, intellectual property and defamation). Entrants must obtain prior consent from any person or from the owner(s) of any property that appears in their entry. By entering, all entrants license and grant the Promoter, its affiliates and sub-licensees an exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, and sub-licensable right to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish and display their entry (including any portion of their entry) for any purpose, including but not limited to future promotional, marketing or publicity purposes, in any media, without compensation, restriction on use, attribution or liability. Entrants further agree, upon request by the Promoter, to assign all of their rights, title and interest (including copyright) in and to their entry to the Promoter and to sign any legal documentation to confirm such assignment. Entrants agree that their entry is their original work and does not infringe the rights of third parties, or that they have obtained full prior consent from any person who has jointly created or has any rights in the aforementioned material. Entrants consent to any use of their entry that may otherwise infringe their moral rights. Entrants are responsible for all entries they submit on entry. The Promoter will not be liable for any entries, to the extent permitted by law. The Promoter reserves the right to remove, request removal or decline to publish any entry or portion of an entry for any reason whatsoever, including if in breach of these Terms and Conditions. The Promoter will have no liability to entrants if it exercises this right and entrants must comply with any request made by the Promoter pursuant to this paragraph. The entrant warrants and represents that any material sent or provided by the entrant to the Promoter will not infringe any copyright, trademarks or other intellectual property rights of any third party (including moral rights) and that the entrant has all rights to use the materials and has obtained all necessary consents to comply with any relevant privacy and/or confidentiality requirements. Entrants agree to indemnify the Promoter for any breach of the Terms and Conditions including this clause.
The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion or claiming a prize, the Promoter will resolve the dispute in direct consultation with the entrant. If the dispute cannot be resolved the Promoter’s decision will be final.
The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or wilful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation), except for any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in which case that liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
The entrant will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
Unless otherwise specified, a prize is a single event for the winner (and where relevant their guests) and cannot be separated into separate events or components.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 7 June 2023