SaveUp 1000 Competition Terms & Conditions ('Conditions of Entry')
Promotion

SaveUp 1000 Competition

Promoter

Up, a brand of Bendigo and Adelaide Bank Limited ABN 11 068 049 178 AFSL/Australian Credit Licence 237879, The Bendigo Centre - 22 Bath Lane, Bendigo, VIC 3550, Australia. Ph: 1300 236 344.

For any inquiries regarding this Promotion, please contact the Promoter at joel.frew@ferocia.com.au or on 1300 236 344.

Promotional period

Start date: 19/01/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT
End date: 20/01/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT

Eligible entrants

Entry is only open to Australian residents who:

are 16 years and over;
are an Up Bank customer; and
have either completed or started and have an active 'SaveUp 1000 challenge' within the Up App.

Entrants must continue to have an active ‘SaveUp 1000 challenge’ at the time of the draw to be eligible for a prize.

How to enter

To enter the Promotion, the entrant must complete the following steps during the Promotional Period:

visit @up_banking on Instagram (located at www.instagram.com/up_banking);
comment on the promotional post with their ‘Upname’, tag a mate and (for entrants who have completed the 'SaveUp 1000 challenge') their 'SaveUp 1000 keyring' membership number;
‘like’ the promotional post; and
‘follow’ @up_banking on Instagram.
Entries permitted

Only one (1) eligible entry per person will be accepted. By completing the entry method, entrants will receive one (1) entry.

Total prize pool

AUD $2,800.00

Prize Description

The prize is an Up EA$Y Saving long sleeve t-shirt.

If the drawn winner has completed the 'SaveUp 1000 challenge' at the time of their entry and quoted their membership number in their comment, they will receive an additional Up EA$Y cap (1 size only).

The exact size and colour of the t-shirt and cap will be determined by the Promoter.

Number of prizes

40

Value (per prize)

AUD$40.00

Winning Method

Draw: computerised random selection - 22/01/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT

Winner notification:

The winners will be contacted via a chat thread within the Up App within seven (7) days of the draw.

Unclaimed Prizes

Prizes must be claimed by 25/03/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT. In the event of an unclaimed prize, the prize will be redrawn on 26/03/24 at 12:00 pm AEDT at Plexus, Level 4, 411 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000. The winners of the redraw will be notified via a chat thread within the Up App within seven (7) days of the redraw.

If there are no prize winner/s or winner/s for this Promotion cannot be found, this information will be published within the Up App.

The entrant agrees and acknowledges that they have read these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule) and that entry into the Promotion is deemed to be acceptance of these Conditions of Entry (and Schedule). Any capitalised terms used in these Conditions of Entry have the meaning given in the Schedule, unless stated otherwise.
The Promotion commences on the Start Date and ends on the End Date ("Promotional Period"). Entries are deemed to be received at the time of receipt by the Promoter and not at the time of transmission or deposit by the entrant. Records of the Promoter and its agencies are final and conclusive as to the time of receipt.
Valid and eligible entries will be accepted during the Promotional Period.
Employees (and their immediate family members) of agencies/companies directly associated with the conduct of this Promotion, the Promoter, businesses involved in determination of winner/s for the Promotion, businesses involved in the management of the Promotion, any organisation benefiting from the Promotion, the Promoter’s distributors, suppliers, subsidiary companies/businesses and associated companies and agencies are not eligible to enter. "Immediate family member" means any of the following: spouse, ex-spouse, de-facto spouse, child or step-child (whether natural or by adoption), parent, step-parent, grandparent, step-grandparent, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, brother, sister, step-brother, step-sister or 1st cousin.
If a prize is won by a person under the age of 18, the prize may be awarded to the winner's parent or guardian and where applicable to the prize a nominated parent/guardian must accompany any person under 18 years of age.
Draw:
The draw will take place at Plexus, Level 4, 411 Collins Street, Melbourne VIC 3000 at 12:00 pm AEDT on 22/01/24 using computerised random selection.
The first forty (40) valid entries drawn will win the prize specified in the Schedule above.
The draw conductor may draw additional reserve entries in case an invalid entry or entrant is drawn.
If a draw is scheduled on the weekend or a public holiday, the draw will be conducted at the same time and location on the following business day. The Promoter will ensure each draw is open for public scrutiny and anyone may witness the draw on request. The winner of a drawn prize is determined by chance.
All reasonable attempts will be made to contact each winner.
If any winner chooses not to take their prize (or is unable to), or does not take or claim a prize within a reasonable time, as specified by the Promoter, or is unavailable, they forfeit the prize and the Promoter is not obliged to substitute the prize.
Entry and continued participation in the Promotion is dependent on the entrant following and acting in accordance with the Instagram Terms of Use, (http://instagram.com/legal/terms/). This Promotion adheres to the terms and conditions set out in the Instagram promotion guidelines which can be found at: http://help.instagram.com/179379842258600. Any questions or comments regarding the Promotion must be directed to the Promoter, not to Instagram. The entrant releases Instagram and its associated companies from all liabilities arising in respect of the Promotion. Entrants acknowledge that the Promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with Instagram.
The value of the prizes is accurate and based upon the recommended retail value of the prizes (inclusive of GST) at the date of printing. The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any variation in the value of the prizes after that date.
No part of a prize is exchangeable, redeemable for cash or any other prize or transferable, unless otherwise specified in writing by the Promoter.
If a prize (or portion of a prize) is unavailable the Promoter reserves the right to substitute the prize (or that portion of the prize) to a prize of equal or greater value and specification.
No entry fee is charged by the Promoter to enter the Promotion. Where entry is allowed online, there is no additional cost to enter the Promotion other than any cost paid by the entrant to access the website or social media platform of entry via their Internet service provider.
If there is a dispute as to the identity of an entrant or winner, the Promoter reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to determine the identity of the entrant or winner.
Entrants' personal information will be collected by the Promoter. Personal information will be stored on the Promoter's database. The Promoter may use this information for future marketing purposes regarding its products, including contacting the entrant electronically. The Promoter will handle personal information in accordance with its privacy policy which is located at https://up.com.au/privacy. The Promoter collects personal information about entrants to enable them to participate in this Promotion and may disclose the entrants' personal information to third parties including its contractors and agents, prize suppliers and service providers to assist in conducting this Promotion and to the State and Territory lottery departments as required under the relevant lottery legislation. If the entrant does not provide their personal information as requested, they may be ineligible to enter or claim a prize in the Promotion.
The Promoter reserves the right to refuse to allow a winner to take part in any or all aspects of a prize, if the Promoter determines in their absolute discretion, that a winner is not in the physical or mental condition necessary to be able to safely participate in or accept the prize. It is a condition of accepting the prize that a winner (or their parent or legal guardian if under the age of 18) may be required to sign a legal release as determined by the Promoter in its absolute discretion, prior to receiving a prize. If a winner is under the age of 18, a nominated parent or legal guardian of the winner will be required to sign the legal release on the winner's behalf.
If a prize is provided to the Promoter by a third party, the prize is subject to the terms and conditions of the third party prize supplier. The terms and conditions which apply to the prize at the time it is issued to the winner will prevail over these Conditions of Entry in the event of any inconsistency. To the extent permitted by law the Promoter accepts no responsibility or liability for any delay or failure by the third party to deliver the prize, any delay or failure relating to the prize itself or failure by the third party to meet any of its obligations in these Conditions of Entry or otherwise.
Any guarantee or warranty given is in addition to any relevant statutory guarantees and warranties and nothing in these Conditions of Entry restricts, excludes or modifies or purports to restrict, exclude or modify any statutory consumer rights under any applicable law including the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth).
If for any reason any aspect of this Promotion is not capable of running as planned, including by reason of computer virus, communications network failure, bugs, tampering, unauthorised intervention, fraud, technical failure or any cause beyond the control of the Promoter, the Promoter may in its sole discretion cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the Promotion and invalidate any affected entries, or suspend or modify a prize, subject to State or Territory regulation.
The Promoter reserves the right, at any time, to validate and check the authenticity of entries and entrant's details (including an entrant's identity, age and place of residence). In the event that a winner cannot provide suitable proof as required by the Promoter to validate their entry, the winner will forfeit the prize in whole and no substitute will be offered. Incomplete, indecipherable, inaudible, incorrect and illegible entries, as applicable, will at the Promoter's discretion be deemed invalid and not eligible to win. Entries containing offensive or defamatory comments, or which breach any law or infringe any third party rights, including intellectual property rights, are not eligible to win. The use of any automated entry software or any other mechanical or electronic means that allows an individual to automatically enter repeatedly is prohibited and may render all entries submitted by that individual invalid.
The Promoter reserves the right to disqualify entries in the event of non-compliance with these Conditions of Entry. In the event that there is a dispute concerning the conduct of the Promotion or claiming a prize, the Promoter will resolve the dispute in direct consultation with the entrant. If the dispute cannot be resolved the Promoter’s decision will be final.
The Promoter and its associated agencies and companies will not be liable for any loss (including, without limitation, indirect, special or consequential loss or loss of profits), expense, damage, personal injury or death which is suffered or sustained (whether or not arising from any person's negligence or wilful misconduct) in connection with this Promotion or accepting or using any prize (or recommendation). For the sake of clarity, this clause shall not apply where the Promoter has contributed to or caused such loss, expense, damage, personal injury or death and shall not apply to any liability which cannot be excluded by law (in each case the Promoter’s liability is limited to the minimum allowable by law).
The winner(s) will participate in and co-operate as required with all reasonable marketing and editorial activities relating to the Promotion, including (but not limited to) being recorded, photographed, filmed or interviewed and acknowledges that the Promoter may use any such marketing and editorial material without further reference or compensation to them.
The Promoter accepts no responsibility for any tax implications and the entrant must seek their own independent financial advice in regards to the tax implications relating to the prize or acceptance of the prize.
Failure by the Promoter to enforce any of its rights at any stage does not constitute a waiver of these rights.

Last updated 18 January 2024