SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Buying & Selling Scams
STAY ALERT when buying or selling online
STAY ALERT when buying or selling online

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business, in 2022 alone, Australians lost over $45 million in buying and selling scams. Use these tips and tricks to protect yourself from getting burned on online marketplaces.

Spotting a scam

Whether you're buying or selling, it's crucial to keep your wits about you when dealing with unknown or unverified people. Sharpen your instincts and recognise these telltale scam signs. Becoming an expert on bad behaviour keeps you in control.

When you're buying online

They setup fake profiles and websites offering products or services that may be extremely rare or priced well below what other people are selling.

They’ll make excuses to not meet up in-person and ask you to move to a different platform such as WhatsApp/Telegram/Signal to continue the conversation.

They’ll refuse to use secure methods of payment such as cash in-person or PayPal.

When you're selling online

They’re often willing to send you money for your product without viewing it in-person.

A scammer posing as a buyer may claim to have paid you more than the agreed price and ask you to refund the difference.

They’ll ask you to pay shipping or transportation costs upfront, 'promising' to reimburse you later.

You may receive an email or text shortly after a buyer claims to have made a payment, asking you to 'upgrade' your PayID account. PayID is a free service for all customers. This is always a scam.

Self-Defence

If you sense you’re being taken for a ride, take action swiftly. Your age, size and strength don’t matter — utilise these techniques to defend yourself against buying & selling scams.

Cover yourself. Use a secure payment method such as cash in-person or PayPal.

Perform an ocular assessment of the situation. When making a purchase, request to physically inspect the item.

When selling an item, provide your Upname to the seller. This will protect your phone number or email from spam/phishing messages.

If you’re seeing some seriously suspicious behaviour, do not provide any personal information to the seller, including your phone number or email address.

Even if a scammer is being pushy, never pay in cryptocurrencies or gift cards.

When selling, do not post an item until the funds have cleared in your account.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY