SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Job & Employment Scams
You could be wORKING for a payday that never comes
You could be wORKING for a payday that never comes

Scammers will tempt you with job offers that promise high pay for minimal effort. It's a smoke-and-mirrors technique where only the scammer benefits in the end. Beef up before engaging with a potential bad boss. The dojo of deception defence is now open.

Spotting a scam

Job and employment scams involve scammers promising earnings for completing game-like tasks on a website or app. You might be asked to send money to "top up" your account to unlock tasks, accumulating a balance you’ll never fully redeem. The scam typically ends when you attempt to withdraw your balance or run out of funds to send to the scammer.

They advertise jobs via legitimate social media platforms pretending to be hiring on behalf of well known companies and online shopping platforms.

They’ll promise you’ll earn a high income while working from home, with little effort and no experience.

They’ll ask you to top up an account with your own money or cryptocurrency to complete tasks, often resulting in you never seeing your money again.

Employment scammers may target more than just your wallet. They might ask to use your bank account to receive funds and then transfer them to another account, promising a commission. This is money laundering and participating in it is a criminal offence.

In the eyes of a scammer, your personal information is as valuable as cash. They may ask for more personal details than necessary for a legitimate job application.

Self-Defence

Before you get cornered by scammers promising a payday that never comes, equip yourself with the skills to fight back. With training, you'll react swiftly and effectively. Think and act before agreeing to employment that seems too good to be true.

Cross-check the job listing. Before applying, check if the job is advertised on LinkedIn or if the company has its own listing online.

Personal protection comes first. Be aware of how much information you’re sharing with a scammer. If it feels too much, it probably is.

Never send money to someone offering you a job. You’re working to make money, not lose it!

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY