SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Investment Scams
STAY on the lookout for scammers posing as investors
STAY on the lookout for scammers posing as investors

Australians have lost over $1.5 billion to investment scams. This category alone has cost Australians more money than every other scam category combined. Don’t be drawn into deceit. When scammers promise big financial returns, think twice before parting with your hard-earned cash.

Spotting a scam

Investment scams trick you into sending money to a fake investor, whether in the stock market, cryptocurrency, or foreign currency exchanges. These scammers have no limits on where they can hide your cash. They often first contact you through unsolicited emails, phone calls, or text messages. Identifying suspicious threats early is key to mastering the art of scam self-defence.

They’ll often set up websites promising high returns and involve minimal risk. They’ll pressure you to act quickly or else you’ll miss out on maximising your returns.

They could send you fictitious account statements showing returns that don’t actually exist. Some companies will even provide ABN/ASIC documents.

They’ll confidently push their product, claiming that the more you invest, the greater the return. They’ll also create a sense of urgency.

Investment scammers can pose as multiple people. They might start as your friend and then introduce you to another scammer who offers an “opportunity” they claim to have successfully invested in. Often, both the “friend” and the “investment scammer” are the same person.

Self-Defence

If you sense you’re being taken for a ride, take action swiftly. Your age, size and strength don’t matter — utilise these techniques to defend yourself against investment scammers.

Check a scammer before they check you. Verify any company you discuss your finances with holds a current Australian Financial Services licence or Australian Credit Licence from ASIC.

Make sure they’re who they say they are—detective work goes a long way. Do not simply trust that someone works for a company without verifying it yourself.

Use your secret weapon. Australian government website ‘Moneysmart’ publishes a list of companies, businesses and websites that are not to be trusted.

Call upon your team for extra help. Talking through the investment with someone not directly involved can help you see it from a different perspective.

Make calculated moves and keep your cash close. Take time before making an investment decision. Investment scammers are master at moving money quickly which makes recovering lost funds difficult.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY