SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Device Control Scams
You could be giving scammers VIP access to your device.
You could be giving scammers VIP access to your device.

You might have unknowingly given a scammer permission to strike on your device without even realising it. With your guard down, you could be hosting a dangerous app that spies on your data. Learn how to detect if your device has been compromised.

Spotting a scam

It’s never too late. If you have had your card number compromised or if you’re seeing unauthorised charges on your account, please reach out in-app via ‘Talk to Us’ or give us a call on 1300 002 258.

They might cold call you, posing as tech support from companies or government departments.

They may create unsolicited pop-ups or send emails warning that your device is compromised, urging you to call a tech support number.

They may convince you to install diagnostic or repair programs, but they’ll actually install remote access software like TeamViewer or AnyDesk, claiming it’s for a problem you’re unaware of.

Scammers create a sense of urgency, claiming your device is infected and that only they can fix it. They exploit your lack of tech knowledge, insisting that remote access is the only solution.

They may create websites and apps that closely mimic those you regularly use, sometimes sending links to fake apps where you enter your bank login and password.

Self-Defence

Avoid engaging in unsolicited conversations. Delete suspicious messages and do not respond to unsolicited emails or SMS messages asking for personal or financial information.

If something feels weird, hang up. Real tech support specialists will never cold call you. Instead, call back using the legitimate company phone number you find yourself.

Complacency leads to compromise. Never install software a cold caller has asked you to install on your device.

Regularly check for apps and software you may have installed. If you don’t recognise it, delete the app and all data associated with it immediately.

For Android users: Open the Google Play Store, tap the menu button on the top-right corner, tap ‘Manage apps & device’, tap on the "Manage" tab at the top of the screen and sort by ‘Recently updated’.

For iOS Users: From your home screen, swipe left until you see the App Library. Your apps are automatically sorted into categories. Tap on the ‘Recently Added’ folder. If there are any apps there that you do not recognise, touch and hold the app in App Library, tap Delete App, then tap Delete.

Even if a website or message seems legitimate, always think twice before entering any personal information like passwords or usernames.

It’s never too late. If you have had your card number compromised or if you’re seeing unauthorised charges on your account, please reach out in-app via ‘Talk to Us’ or give us a call on 1300 002 258.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY