SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Identity Theft Scams
BEWARE OF SCAMMERS PRETENDING TO BE YOU
BEWARE OF SCAMMERS PRETENDING TO BE YOU

Identity theft scams pose a different kind of threat, often becoming apparent only after a scammer has opened new accounts, bought a phone plan, or used your money. Keep watch on your details and send imposters to an early grave.

Spotting a scam

Identity theft scams typically involve a scammer pretending to be you to steal your money or gain other benefits. Once they have enough of your personal details, they can assume your entire identity to open bank accounts, take out loans, or conduct illegal business in your name. Don't live in fear; by watching for a few key signs, you can strike first against these fraudulent fighters.

Your identity may have been stolen if you receive unsolicited bills, credit card statements, or loan statements by mail or email.

Be wary of calls from creditors about debts you don’t recognise. If you didn’t create the debt, a scam may be involved.

You may have difficulty getting a credit card or loan due to an unexplained poor credit rating caused by a scammer’s activities in your name.

Your personal details may be involved in a legitimate company’s data breach. Scammers often steal personal or business records through hacking and data breaches.

Scammers can piece together the building blocks of your data from multiple sources. Be aware they can also share and sell stolen personal information to other criminals.

Self-Defence

Whether or not you can confirm a scammer has stolen your personal details, master a basic set of moves to keep them safe. The scams may vary, but the signs are the same. Defence is as simple as following directions, so you will fear no scam.

Don’t open suspicious messages—delete them. Don’t respond to unsolicited emails or SMS’ asking for your personal or financial information.

Be mindful of how much personal information you share on social media. Scammers may be trawling profiles for even the smallest scrap of your data.

If a new card or product arrives that you didn’t apply for, contact us immediately. Regularly check your credit file for any unexpected changes.

Identity theft isn’t always digital. Regularly ensure your physical mailbox is secure and shred any documents with personal information before tossing them away.

Even if a website or message seems legitimate, always think twice before entering any personal information such as passwords or usernames.

It’s never too late. If you’ve given your personal information to a scammer, visit IDCARE or call 1800 595 160 to get help planning your next move against scammers.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

ROMANCE SCAMS

Trust your head, not your heart. Being blinded by love can lead to being scammed.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY