SCAM SELF-DEFENCE GUIDE

Romance Scams
Don’t let love blind you to scams
Don’t let love blind you to scams

Your online lover might be a scammer operating undercover. Using classic catfishing techniques, they can quickly win your heart and then your money. Australians have lost over $210 million to romance scams. Perfect your perception skills to spot red flags before it’s too late.

Spotting a scam

A romance scammer targets people seeking love, often approaching you on dating websites, apps, or social media. Over days, months, or even years, they build a bond and gain your trust. These scammers can be particularly ruthless, preying on loneliness or personal circumstances. Avoid the pain of being scammed by learning the telltale signs and making decisions with your head, not your heart.

They’ll quickly build a relationship and then ask for money, claiming to be in urgent need or presenting a "great" investment opportunity.

They might start with a small amount, but if successful, they’ll repeatedly ask for more—often using unusual payment methods.

They’ll encourage you to keep your relationship secret from loved ones and coach you on how to respond to any questions or concerns.

Romance scammers will protect their true identity at all costs and often avoid meeting in person or answering a video call.

Self-Defence

Enjoy your new romance, but when faced with tough decisions, use your head, not your heart. Learn to recognise relationship-ending finishing combos and keep romance scammers out of your wallet.

If something feels off, reverse search any images you receive from a romance scammer. Upload their pictures to Google Images to check for any matches.

Discuss the relationship with close friends and family. Getting a fresh perspective from others can make all the difference.

Never send explicit images of yourself online. Scammers can use these images to blackmail you for ransom.

When money is involved, don’t rush the love. Take it slow and ask as many questions as you can.

Stay alert at all times. Watch for spelling and grammar mistakes, and look for inconsistencies in stories.

SCAMS AND FRAUD TAKE MANY
DIFFERENT FORMS

They aren't always easy to spot, but knowing what to look for can help you dodge scams like a pro. Rise to the level of Scam Sensei—win and come out unscathed!

STUDY SOME SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST COMMON SCAMS
TAP TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SOME COMMON SCAMS
BUYING & SELLING SCAMS

Buying or selling goods and services online can be risky business. Learn how to spot snakes in your DMs.

BANK IMPERSONATION SCAMS

Scammers often pretend they’re someone else. Learn to fight through their web of deceit.

INVESTMENT SCAMS

You might think you're getting an investment opportunity, but you could be the target of a scam. Learn to stay vigilant.

JOB & EMPLOYMENT SCAMS

Are you really earning cash for completing tasks online or are you getting played? Learn how to outsmart scammers.

IDENTITY THEFT SCAMS

There's only one of you. Learn techniques to eliminate scammers' attempts to impersonate you.

DEVICE CONTROL SCAMS

Installing the wrong app could lead to being scammed. Stay secure by fortifying your digital world.

Report a Scam

Government initiatives such as Scamwatch and Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC) allow you to report a scam and provide educational material on how best to protect yourself moving forward. You can also contact your local police station for assistance.

STAY SMART
ON
SELF-DEFENCE AGAINST SCAMMERS
REMEMBER...
WE WON'T CALL
FOR
PINS
&
PASSCODES
WE WON'T ASK
YOU TO
READ
AN SMS CODE
WE WON'T TELL
YOU TO
MOVE
YOUR MONEY